DISTRICT COMMISSION I AM
CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN THE
TIME IS SEVEN O'CLOCK.
WE WILL BEGIN WITH SOME NOTES
ABOUT THE MEETING FORMAT REMOTE
PARTICIPATION IN THIS MEETING
IS AVAILABLE BY TELEPHONE.
>> THE MICROPHONE ON BY
TELEPHONE OR THROUGH ONLINE
VIDEO CONFERENCING.
PLEASE SEE THE MEETING AGENDA
FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION INCLUDING
PHONE NUMBERS AND THE WEB LINK
TO REQUEST TO SPEAK IF
LISTENING BY PHONE PRESS STAR
NINE IF YOU ARE VIDEO
CONFERENCING USE THE RAISE HAND
BUTTON PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR BY
TELEPHONE DURING THE PUBLIC
COMMENT AGENDA ITEM AND DURING
EACH PUBLIC HEARING.
>> FINALLY, HERE'S AN OVERVIEW
OF THE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS FOR
EACH HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
FIRST, PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
>> THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
>> AT THAT POINT THE HEARING
WILL BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION.
>> FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO BE GRANTED.
>> MISS THATCHER, WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER CALDERON HERE
COMMISSIONER US COMMISSIONER
SMITH HERE.
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN HERE.
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE.
COMMISSIONER NISBETT YOU
COMMISSIONER CARTER YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
>> THAT'S FANTASTIC.
THANK YOU.
AND YOU SEE SOME NEW FACES HERE
ON THE COMMISSION.
WE HAVE TWO COMMISSIONERS AND
SO BEFORE WE GET INTO THE NEXT
PART OF THE AGENDA, WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE THEM INTRODUCE
THEMSELVES.
LET US KNOW A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
YOU AND WE'RE REALLY HAPPY
YOU'RE HERE.
SO THANK YOU FOR JOINING AND
WHY DON'T WE START WITH YOU.
>> GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS SARAH NESBIT AND I'M
SUPER EXCITED TO BE JOINING
EVERYONE HERE AND TO BE ON HTC
AND I AM AN ANN ARBOR NATIVE.
I GREW UP IN ANN ARBOR, GREW UP
ON THE OLD WEST SIDE IN A
HISTORIC HOME.
SO HENCE MY INTEREST.
HTC MOVED TO THE EAST COAST FOR
ABOUT FIFTEEN YEARS, CAME BACK
TO ANN ARBOR WHERE I'M LIVING
AGAIN ON THE OLD WEST SIDE IN A
HISTORIC HOME AND WANTED TO BE
A PART OF THIS COMMUNITY NOW
THAT IT'S HOME AGAIN AND
THOUGHT HOW CAN I FIND A WAY TO
SORT OF SHARE MY INTERESTS AND
MY PASSIONS WITH SOMETHING THAT
SORT OF SERVES THE COMMUNITY
AND THE HDC SEEMED LIKE A GOOD
FIT.
I HAVE A DEGREE IN ART HISTORY
AND SO I BIG FAN OF ALL THINGS
HISTORICAL AND ART AND
INTERESTED IN KIND OF CREATING
AND PRESERVING THESE THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT GIVE US A
LOT OF PERSONALITY IN OUR TOWN.
OH, THANK YOU, SARAH.
HI EVERYONE.
I'M JENNA JONES CARTER.
I'M A PRINCIPAL AT SITE DESIGN
GROUP OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
AND URBAN DESIGN FIRM BASED IN
CHICAGO.
I FIRST MOVED TO ANN ARBOR IN
2006 FOR GRAD SCHOOL AND SO I
HAVE MY MASTER OF LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE THAT I GOT AT THE
SCHOOL NATURAL RESOURCES AND
ENVIRONMENT AND THEN MOVED BACK
HERE IN TWENTY NINETEEN BEFORE
THE PANDEMIC.
I'VE ALWAYS JUST HAD AN
INTEREST IN BEING MORE
INGRAINED IN THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY SO REALLY HAPPY TO BE
PART OF THIS AND ALSO HAVE
WORKED ON A LOT OF HISTORICAL
SPACES IN MY PROFESSIONAL
CAREER SO KIND OF COME FULL
CIRCLE BUT JUST HAVE A DEEP
INTEREST IN THAT.
SO A COUPLE OF MENTIONED I'VE
WORKED AT THE ON A PROJECT FOR
THE FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL
HISTORY IN CHICAGO.
YOU MIGHT KNOW THAT FROM THE
WORLD'S COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION IN
1893 AND THEN ALSO RECENTLY THE
NATIONAL HISTORICAL SORRY THE
PULLMAN NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF CHICAGO.
>> SO AGAIN REALLY HAPPY TO BE
HERE AND BEING PART OF THIS AND
MEETING ALL OF YOU GREAT.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO LET'S MOVE ON NOW ITEM
SEE APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA
EVERYONE SHOULD HAVE THE AGENDA
AND IT LOOKS LIKE THERE MIGHT
BE A I HAVE POINT ORDER OR A
CHANGE TO THE AGENDA.
>> WHAT DO WE REQUEST TO CHANGE
THE AGENDA WOULD YOU ENTERTAIN
MOVING F7 TO BECOME THE NEW
EFORE BECAUSE I JUST REALIZED
THAT THE APPLICANT IS SITTING
HERE AND IT'S GOING TO BE A
LONG NIGHT FOR HIM IF HE'S YOU
KNOW, GOT TWO ITEMS THAT FAR
APART.
>> OH RIGHT.
>> BECAUSE THERE'S ONE
APPLICANT WITH TWO ITEMS.
YEAH.
SO BY PUTTING THEM TOGETHER
THAT WOULD BE AWFULLY NICE
OF US AND SO YEAH I THINK THAT
HEARING OR SEEING NO OBJECTION
AND THEN I THINK WE CAN MAKE
THAT CHANGE.
THANK YOU.
GREAT.
>> ANY OTHER CHANGES.
>> SO THEN THE THE AGENDA IS
GREAT.
APPROVED AS AMENDED AND WE'LL
>> SO THEN THE THE AGENDA IS
MOVE ON TO THE NEXT ITEM WHICH
APPROVED AS AMENDED AND WE'LL
IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
MOVE ON TO THE NEXT ITEM WHICH
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
MEMBERS THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
MEMBERS THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
ON THIS AGENDA.
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
>> SO NOW YOU WOULD APPROACH
ON THIS AGENDA.
THE PODIUM NOW OR YOU WOULD BE
>> SO NOW YOU WOULD APPROACH
PRESSING STAR NINE OR USING THE
THE PODIUM NOW OR YOU WOULD BE
RAISE THE HAND BUTTON IF YOU
PRESSING STAR NINE OR USING THE
WERE ON ZUM THERE'S SOME
RAISE THE HAND BUTTON IF YOU
RUSTLING IN THE CROWD BUT I
WERE ON ZUM THERE'S SOME
DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
RUSTLING IN THE CROWD BUT I
THE AGENDA AND IT SEEMS LIKE WE
DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
DON'T HAVE ANYONE JUST BUT HOLD
THE AGENDA AND IT SEEMS LIKE WE
ON JUST A MOMENT BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE ANYONE JUST BUT HOLD
MIGHT HAVE SOMEONE MORE
ON JUST A MOMENT BECAUSE WE
IMMIGRATION.
MIGHT HAVE SOMEONE MORE
OH, THIS IS FOR THE NEXT YEAR.
IMMIGRATION.
OK, I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
OH, THIS IS FOR THE NEXT YEAR.
I THOUGHT YOU WERE IN THE
OK, I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
MOMENT OK I GUESS WE'RE GOOD.
I THOUGHT YOU WERE IN THE
>> OK SO THAT WILL WE'LL CLOSE
MOMENT OK I GUESS WE'RE GOOD.
THE THE PUBLIC COMMENT PORTION
>> OK SO THAT WILL WE'LL CLOSE
OF THE AGENDA WE'LL MOVE ON TO
THE THE PUBLIC COMMENT PORTION
E UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND THERE
OF THE AGENDA WE'LL MOVE ON TO
IS NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS TODAY
E UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND THERE
SO THAT GETS TO F HEARINGS.
IS NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS TODAY
WE'VE GOT QUITE A FEW HEARINGS
SO THAT GETS TO F HEARINGS.
TODAY SO IT'S GOOD WE CAN GET
WE'VE GOT QUITE A FEW HEARINGS
RIGHT INTO IT.
TODAY SO IT'S GOOD WE CAN GET
WE'RE GOING TO START WITH F ONE
RIGHT INTO IT.
THAT'S TWO TWENTY FOUR MURRAY
WE'RE GOING TO START WITH F ONE
AVE. AND SO STAFF WHENEVER
THAT'S TWO TWENTY FOUR MURRAY
YOU'RE READY TAKE IT AWAY
.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
SO THESE NEXT TWO APPLICATIONS
ARE GOING TO LOOK PRETTY
SIMILAR BUT WE'LL START WITH
TWO TWO FORMER THAT'S THE ONE
ON THE LEFT IN THIS PHOTO.
IT IS A ONE IN THREE QUARTER
STORY GIEBEL FRONTIER WHICH
FEATURES ONE OVER ONE WINDOWS A
SCREEN IN FRONT PORCH WITH A
HIPPED ROOF, A GABLE WALL
DORMER ON THE SOUTH ELEVATION
AND A LARGE REAR EDITION WAS
FIRST OCCUPIED IN 1914 BY A
CLERK AT F.W. GROSS.
THE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE WEST
SIDE OF MURRAY AVENUE BETWEEN
WASHINGTON STREET TO THE NORTH
AND WEST LIBERTY STREET
RECORDING IN PROGRESS AND THE
APPLICANT SEEKS FDA APPROVAL TO
PAVE A CONCRETE DRIVEWAY.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT THIS HOUSE
ON THE LEFT FIRST WE'LL LOOK AT
THE ONE ON THE RIGHT IN A
MOMENT AND THIS IS THE
CURRENTLY GRAVEL DRIVEWAY THAT
THEY ARE PROPOSING TO PAVE WITH
CONCRETE.
SO SOME EXISTING CONDITIONS
PHOTOS THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY
THE APPLICANT IN THE NARROW
DRIVEWAY GRAVEL CURRENTLY SIDE
OF THE HOUSE BE RIGHT HERE
TWO
THOUSAND EIGHT STAFF PHOTO
OF THE HOUSE AND THEN HERE ARE
THE PLANS THAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT.
>> SO THIS IS THE HOUSE RIGHT
HERE.
THE HASHED AREA IS THE CONCRETE
DRIVE SO IT EXTENDS FROM THAT
EXISTING CURB CUT.
>> IT'LL GO FORTY FIVE FEET
BACK AND THERE IS YOU'LL SEE IN
ANOTHER PHOTO THERE IS SOME
EXISTING PAPERS RIGHT HERE AND
THEN THEIR GARAGE SO THE PAVERS
AREN'T SUPPOSED TO BE TOUCHED.
IT'S REALLY JUST THIS GRAVEL
AREA.
SO HERE THESE ARE THE PAPERS
THAT YOU CAN SEE RIGHT IN FRONT
OF THE GARAGE.
>> THIS IS THE GRAVEL AREA
GRAVEL LOOKING FROM THE OTHER
DIRECTION AND THEN THE GARAGE
BACK HERE AND THEN THIS IS JUST
ANOTHER PHOTO OF THE SITE.
ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T HAVE TOO MUCH TO ADD.
IT IS A PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION IN PAVING CONCRETE
DRIVEWAY FROM THE EXISTING
KIRCHE EXTENDING FORTY FIVE
WEST TOWARDS THE BRICK PAVERS
OF THE EXISTING GARAGE.
IT SAYS IN THE STAFF REPORT
THAT IT'S UNCLEAR WHEN THE
GARAGES CONSTRUCTED BECAUSE
IT'S NOT SHOWN ON THE NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN MAP BUT
OUT OF THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
SITE VISIT THE APPLICANT DID
HAVE SOME REALLY COOL BUILDING
PERMITS INSIDE THE GARAGE THAT
SHOW THAT IT WAS BUILT IN
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT SO MUST
HAVE BEEN JUST AFTER THEY DID
THE SURVEY FOR THE SANDBORN
FIRE INSURANCE MAPS SO JUST
PASS THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE
BUT THE GARAGE ISN'T GOING TO
BE TOUCHED AND STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
I'M GOING TO WALK THROUGH THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FIRST.
NO ONE AT PROPERTY WILL BE USED
AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR BE
GIVEN A NEW USE THAT REQUIRES
MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS, FEATURES
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS TO THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED 10 NEW
ADDITIONS AND ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
WOULD BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES IT IS RECOMMENDED TO
RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS,
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND PRESERVE
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES AS
WELL AS FEATURES OF THE SITE
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
ITS OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION ONTO
THE SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
TEXTURE OR WHICH DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
OR RADICALLY CHANGE BUILDINGS
AND THEY'RE FEATURES THAT ARE
IMPORTANT DEFINING OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR A RESIDENTIAL
LANDSCAPE FEATURE.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE ANY NEW BUILDING
STREETSCAPE OR LANDSCAPE
FEATURE THAT IS OUT OF SCALE OR
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE TO THE
DISTRICT'S HISTORIC CHARACTER
AND FOR PAVED AREAS IT'S
APPROPRIATE ON RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN EXISTING HISTORIC
DRIVEWAYS AS WELL AS THE GREEN
SPACE BETWEEN THE DRIVEWAY IN
THE HOUSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THAT IS THE FIRST ONE AND I
WILL STOP THERE FOR RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU, MARIANNA.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, NEXT WE WILL GO TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT SO
COMMISSIONERS KAPLAN AND I WERE
ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
>> WHY DON'T YOU START?
SURE.
SO AS WAS SAID IN THE STAFF
REPORT, THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD SCENARIO WITH
THE TWO DRIVEWAY'S ONE THING
THAT WAS BROUGHT UP DURING OUR
VISIT WAS THAT THE CURB CUTS
WERE FAIRLY RECENT AND I
BELIEVE WERE DONE BY THE CITY
AS PART OF AN EFFORT TO IMPROVE
DRAINAGE.
THIS IS A PRETTY LOW PART IN
THE CITY AND I THERE WAS SOME
FLOODING ISSUES THAT WERE KIND
OF ENDEMIC TO THE AREA.
SO THE CURB CUTS WERE ALREADY
RECENTLY REPLACED AND THE
DRIVEWAYS WERE KIND OF COMPORT
WITH THEM.
BUT IN TERMS OF HOW THEY HOW
THEY CHANGED YOU KNOW, THE
EXISTING USE OF THE DRIVEWAYS I
DIDN'T SEE I DIDN'T SEE ANY
DRAMATIC CHANGE ANYTHING THAT
WOULD IMPACT HOW ANYONE WITH
HOW ANYONE INTERACTS VISIBLY
WITH THE STRUCTURES.
>> THANK YOU.
I'D AGREE AND I'D JUST ADD A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
THE ONE THING TO NOTE IS THAT
THE FOR THIS PROPERTY THE THE
THE NORTH PROPERTY LINE IS
RIGHT AT THAT NINE FOOT EDGE.
SO THIS THIS THERE'S NOT LIKE A
LOT OF ROOM TO TO TO BUILD A
WIDER DRIVEWAY AND THE REASON
I'M BRINGING THAT UP IS BECAUSE
THE DRIVEWAY DOES EXTEND ALL
THE WAY TO THE HOUSE AND WE
JUST HEARD IN THE STANDARDS
THAT YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO LEAVE
GREENSPACE IN BETWEEN A
DRIVEWAY AND THE HOUSE.
THAT'S THE APPROPRIATE THING TO
DO.
SO YOU KNOW, THERE IS THAT NOTE
BUT I THINK THAT JUST BEING ON
SITE AND SEEING HOW NARROW IT
IS NOTING THAT THE PROPERTY
LINE IS RIGHT THERE AND THEN
THE OTHER KEY THING IS THAT THE
GRAVEL ALREADY DOES GO EXTEND
THE HOUSE.
>> SO THIS ISN'T LIKE A CHANGE
FROM WHAT'S THERE.
IT'S JUST A CHANGE IN MATERIALS
.
>> AND THE OTHER THING TO NOTE
WAS THAT IT REALLY WAS KIND
OF COOL TO SEE A BUILDING
PERMIT FROM NINETEEN FORTY
EIGHT THAT THEY HAD ON THEIR
PROPERTY LIKE IT WAS JUST IN
THEIR GARAGE KIND OF BEHIND A
PANEL THAT THEY HAD SAVED THIS
WHOLE TIME AND THAT WAS KIND
OF PRETTY COOL TO SEE.
>> OK SO LET'S MOVE ON THEN
WE'LL GET THE APPLICANT
PRESENTATION SO THE APPLICANT
IS ON ZOOME I BELIEVE RIGHT SO
LET'S GET YOU KNOW THERE WE GO.
HELLO GOOD TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
>> CAN YOU HEAR US OK GREAT.
YEAH CAN YOU HEAR US.
WE CAN AND WE CAN SEE YOU OR
THREE OK SO SO THIS IS YOUR
CHANCE YOU'VE KIND OF HEARD THE
STAFF REPORT AND THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT SO YOU CAN
RESPOND TO ANYTHING YOU'VE
HEARD BUT ALSO JUST GIVE YOUR
OWN PRESENTATION AND THEN IT'S
YOUR THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M SORRY I SHOULD HAVE
MENTIONED THIS REQUEST BY MAYBE
THE ONE THING ACTUALLY THAT YOU
HAVE ALREADY KIND OF ALLUDED TO
IS THAT I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
OUR HOPE IS THAT WE CAN HAVE
CONCRETE ALL THE WAY UP TO THE
HOUSE FOR A NUMBER REASONS.
ONE TO YOUR POINT UP LIKE IT
ALREADY HAS THE STONE ALL THE
WAY TO THE HOUSE AND IT IS A
VERY IT'S THE NARROW SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
THE OTHER THING TO THINK ABOUT
IT YOU CONSIDER THAT IS IT IS
IN THE FLOODWAY AND SO MY
CONCERN WOULD BE IS IF WE LEFT
A GAP BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
CONCRETE THAT THE WATER WOULD
GET NOT HAVE THE RIGHT KIND
OF DRAINAGE.
WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME ON OUR
BACK BRICK WORK WITH SHANNON
RANDALL ON MAKING SURE WE WERE
MANAGING WATER FLOW
APPROPRIATELY INTO OUR RAIN
GARDEN.
AND SO I REALLY DON'T WANT TO
REPEAT A REPEAT FLOODING
PROBLEM
ALSO MAYBE I WOULD ADD
WE MAY LOOK I'M SURE WE LOOK
SUPER YOUNG TO ALL OF YOU BUT
AS WE AGE AND WOULD LOVE TO AGE
IN PLACE THAT ONE OF OUR MAIN
REASONS FOR WANTING CONCRETE IS
THAT IT'S EASIER TO SHOVEL AND
MAINTAIN AND GET ICE OFF AND
THAT IF WE HAD THAT EXTRA
LITTLE STRIP BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND THE CONCRETE I WOULD WORRY
ABOUT STUMBLING AND FALLING
ALSO WITH MY AGING MOTHER WHO
DOES COME AND VISIT SO THAT
THERE ARE QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT.
>> IS THERE ANYTHING YOU WANT
TO ADD REI I CAN THINK OF AND
OK YEAH SO THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
>> WE CAN'T SEE YOUR FACES BUT
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I MEANT TO SAY BEFORE I HANDED
IT OVER TO YOU THAT COULD YOU
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD.
>> SO CAN YOU DO THAT PLEASE.
YEAH SO I'M AND RYAN AND OUR
LAST NAME IS VERY HENCHY.
WE HAVE A SHARED LAST NAME AND
WE LIVE AT TWO TO FORMER AVENUE
IN ANN ARBOR AND HAVE LIVED
HERE.
WE WERE BOTH IN OUR BUT HAVE
LIVED AT THIS ADDRESS SINCE
1990 SEVEN.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK SO NOW WE'LL GET SOME
COMMISSIONER QUESTIONS IF THERE
ARE ANY AND SO I'M WONDERING IF
ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
SO NEXT IS THE PUBLIC HEARING
SO WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSON SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS APPLICATION
AT TWO TWENTY FOUR MURRAY.
>> SO I'M GUESSING WE DON'T
HAVE ANYONE KNOW.
OK, SO NOW WE'LL CLOSE THE
WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS ITEM AND WE'LL MOVE ON
TO EMOTIONS.
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION OK?
>> YEAH I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUES A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION TWO TO FOUR MURRAY
AVENUE CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
AND SIZE STORE DISTRICT TO PAVE
A DRIVEWAY.
I PROPOSE THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE
SURROUNDING RESOURCES AND MEETS
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES FOR PAVED AREA AND
LANDSCAPE FEATURES THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
OF REHABILITATIONS IN
PARTICULAR TO STANDARDS ONE TO
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING FOR BUILDING SITE.
HAVE A SECOND SECOND GRADE THAT
WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SMITH.
DO WE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
I THINK THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROJECT.
THERE MAYBE IS JUST THAT ONE
LITTLE QUESTION ABOUT THE
PLANTING STRIP BUT DOES ANYONE
HAVE AN ISSUE WITH THE PLANNING
STRIP THAT THEY WANT TO BRING
UP NOW?
OK, ANY DISCUSSION ABOUT
ANYTHING ELSE THEY LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT?
NO GOOD.
OK, WELL THEN LET'S MOVE TO A
VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
GREAT.
SO YOU'RE YOUR APPLICATION
PASSES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
OK, SO JUST MAKING SURE WE GOT
THROUGH EVERYTHING THERE LOOKS
LIKE WE DID SO NOW WE MIGHT
EXPERIENCE SOME DEJA VU HERE
BUT WE'RE GOING TO DO EF TWO
WHICH IS TWO TWENTY TWO MURRAY
AVE. AND SO YEAH THE STAFF
REPORT WHENEVER WHENEVER YOU'RE
READY MARIJANA RIGHT NOW WE ARE
LOOKING AT TWO TO TWO MURREE
WHICH IS ON THE RIGHT SIDE IN
THE PHOTO VERY SIMILAR
APPLICATION BUT I'LL GO THROUGH
IT THIS ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STORY GABAL FRONTYARD FEATURES
A CUT STONE FOUNDATION A
COVERED FRONT PORCH WITH A
HEAVY ROOF AND WOOD SIDING.
IT WAS FIRST OCCUPIED IN 1913
BY CLYDE ANDERSON, A TOOL MAKER
IN HIS WIFE HELEN.
THE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE WEST
SIDE OF MURRAY AVENUE BETWEEN
WEST WASHINGTON STREET AND WEST
LIBERTY STREET AND THE
APPLICANT SEEKS THE APPROVAL TO
PAY A CONCRETE DRIVEWAY.
SO NOW WE'RE LOOKING AT THE
RIGHT SIDE EXISTING CONDITIONS
TAKEN AT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
VISIT ALSO GRAVEL SOME GRASS
PATCHES ADJACENT TO HOUSE AND
THEN HERE WE HAVE THE PROPOSED
GRAVEL DRIVEWAY I'M SORRY
CONCRETE DRIVEWAY AGGREGATE
CONCRETE AS NOTED ON THE
DRAWINGS AND IT IS THIS GRAY
SHADED PART.
SO IT'S 14 FEET WIDE AND GOES
BACK FORTY ONE FEET AND SEVEN
INCHES IT GOES BACK TO THE EDGE
OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S A FENCE HERE THAT YOU
CAN SEE IN THE PHOTOS.
THERE WILL BE THE SPACE IN
BETWEEN THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
HOUSE AND THEN THERE IS A
PROPOSED GREEN SPACE WHICH IS
ADJACENT THE PROPERTY THAT WE
JUST LOOKED AT.
THE CURB CUT IS EXISTING.
IT'S JUST SLIGHTLY THE CURB CUT
.
HERE IS A TWENTY SEVEN STAFF
PHOTO SOME OF THE PHOTOS
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT AND
THAT IS THIS IS THE FENCE BACK
HERE THAT THE PAVED DRIVEWAY
WILL GO TO NO GARAGE BACK HERE
.
ALL RIGHT.
WE DID READ UM I THINK ALL
OF THESE I'LL GO THROUGH A FEW
OF THEM.
WE READ STANDARD ONE, TWO AND
TEN.
UM, I'LL READ A COUPLE OF THAT
STANDARD OF THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES
AGAIN IT IS RECOMMENDED TO
RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE.
>> IT IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR OUT
OF SCALE
FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE ANY NEW BUILDING
STREETSCAPE OR LANDSCAPE
FEATURES THAT IS OUT OF SCALE
OR OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE TO
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER THE
DISTRICT FOR PAINT AREAS IT IS
APPROPRIATE ON RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN EXISTING HISTORIC
DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS AND TO
MAINTAIN GREEN SPACE BETWEEN
THE HOUSE AND THE DRIVEWAY.
A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT I WILL
ADD FROM THE STAFF REPORT AGAIN
THIS IS PAVED DRIVEWAY SOUTH
OF THE HOUSE AT WILL
APPROXIMATELY LINE WITH THE
EXISTING CURB ON MURRAY AVENUE
.
THE PAVING WILL BE EXPOSED
EITHER GET CONCRETE AND
CURRENTLY THAT AREA IS GRAPPLE
WITH SOME GRASS PATCHES.
THERE WILL BE ABOUT THREE FEET
FROM THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE AND
ABOUT FIVE FEET FROM THE PARCEL
INTO THE SOUTH.
>> THERE WAS A GARAGE AT THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE BUT
BUILDING PERMITS WERE FILED IN
NINETEEN SEVENTY TO DEMOLISH
THE GARAGE IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
SEVEN PERMITS WERE SUBMITTED
CONTRACTS TO CONSTRUCT A SHED
ON SITE WHICH WAS VISIBLE IN
THAT TWO THOUSAND SEVEN STAFF
PHOTO AND BUILDING PERMITS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN SHOWED THAT THE
APPROXIMATE AREA OF THIS
DRIVEWAY WAS GRAVEL AT THE TIME
BUT ACCORDING TO AERIAL
PHOTOGRAPHS THE SHADE WAS
REMOVED BY TWENTY FIFTEEN.
IT'S NOT IN ANY OF THE PHOTOS
THAT IT WASN'T THERE ON OUR
SITE VISIT OVERALL STAFF
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL OF THE
APPLICATION.
THE LOCATION IS APPROPRIATE.
>> THE PAVING WILL NOT DIRECTLY
AFFECT THE HOUSE AND THE WORK
IS REVERSIBLE AND THAT'S ALL I
HAVE RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MARIJANA OK I WILL
HAVE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT.
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN DO YOU WANT
TO GO NONE OF US ADD HERE I
THINK A LOT OF DETAILS THAT WE
COVERED FOR THE LAST APPLICANT
EQUALLY APPLY TO THIS ONE.
THERE'S A LITTLE MORE WITH YOU
AND I THINK YOU'VE DONE THE
RIGHT THINGS WITH THAT EXTRA
SPACE.
THANK YOU.
YEAH I AGREE.
YEAH, THERE'S MORE SPACE THE
CURB IS ALSO BIGGER AND THEY
HAVE A WIDER DRIVEWAY BECAUSE
THERE'S MORE SPACE I THINK.
YEAH.
AND IF YOU LOOK THE I THINK
MORE OR LESS WHERE THE GRAVEL
IS RIGHT NOW IS WHERE THE
CONCRETE IS GOING TO GO.
SO IT'S NOT WE'RE SAYING THAT
IT'S WIDE BUT IT'S NOT GETTING
IT'S NOT WIDENING AS FAR AS WE
CAN SEE.
>> YEAH.
SO GREAT.
LET'S MOVE ON NOW TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION SO IT
LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE THE
APPLICANT ON ZOOM MAYBE
LITERALLY ZOOMING AROUND IN HER
CAR.
>> BE SAFE PLEASE.
BUT YEAH IT'S GOOD.
OK, SO BUT YOU CAN I THINK YOU
KNOW THE DRILL BECAUSE YOU WERE
ON FOR THE LAST HEARING SO
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND AND
IT'S ALL YOURS.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL.
ARATO TO YOU TOO.
MURRAY AVENUE AND NOW THANK YOU
FOR PUTTING THIS ON THE AGENDA
AND JOE AND MARIANA FOR THEIR
SUPPORT AND PREPARING WHAT
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> THANKS, MARY GRACE, DO YOU
HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD OR IS
THAT JUST A QUESTION THAT
TRANSITION BETWEEN THAT SIDE
DOOR AND THE GARAGE RIGHT NOW
IS BRICK PAPER DOES DOES THAT
STAY CAN ALSO BE AT CONCRETE?
IS IT HOW DO YOU HOW IS THAT DO
WE HAVE OK THERE YOU GO.
ALL RIGHT.
I KIND OF HEARD YOU BROKE UP A
LITTLE BIT THERE BUT IT SOUNDED
LIKE YOU WERE ASKING ABOUT IF
THE THE BRICK PATIO CAN BE
CONCRETE OR NOT.
IS THAT RIGHT?
DOES NOT HAVE THE SIDE DOOR TO
THE NEW DRIVEWAY?
YEAH, IT'S CURRENTLY RED BRICK
PAPER.
DO YOU WANT THAT WITH RAILROAD
TIES AROUND IT?
I'M NOT SURE WHEN THAT WAS DONE
.
DO YOU WANT THAT TO STAY OR CAN
THAT BE CAN THAT
TRANSITION ALL
MATCH?
>> THAT IS A DESIGN QUESTION
WHICH WOULD BE TOTALLY UP TO
YOU.
SO WHAT'S PROPOSED IS THAT THAT
THE BRICK IS STAYING BUT IF YOU
WANT THE BRICK TO BECOME
CONCRETE THEN YOU CAN LET US
KNOW RIGHT NOW AND WE CAN ADD
THAT TO THE APPLICATION.
I THINK THAT IT WOULD LOOK
BETTER AND I'D LIKE THAT BUT I
WON'T LET THAT BE SOMETHING
THAT HOLDS UP MOVING FORWARD
WITH US.
>> OK, THAT'S SIMPLE ENOUGH.
I THINK WE CAN WE CAN TALK
THROUGH THAT HERE AS WE GO.
>> ANYTHING ELSE?
THE GREEN SPACE THAT'S BETWEEN
THE HOUSE AND THE NEW DRIVE IS
THAT TO BE PLANTING'S OR RIGHT
NOW IT'S GRAVEL WITH IT'S
BECOME A LITTLE GREEN BECAUSE
IT'S GOT WEEDS BUT SHOULD YOU
WHAT IS IT SAY ON THE
APPLICATION?
>> IT'S LIKE A DIFFERENT COLOR
.
IT JUST HAS GREEN SPACE.
IT DOES SAY GREEN SPACE.
OK, WE LET THAT WELL ACTUALLY I
THINK WE DID THE DRIVEWAY
BETWEEN TWO TO FOUR AND MYSELF
IS GREEN AND I THINK WE LEFT
THE HOUSE PART SO IT'S WHATEVER
YOU WANT IT TO BE.
WELL LIKE I SAID, THAT'S
ANOTHER DESIGN QUESTION.
SO REALLY IT'S WHATEVER
WHATEVER YOU PROPOSE I MEAN
WE'D WANT IT TO BE GREEN SPACE
I THINK SO GREEN SPACE GREEN AT
BEST HAS GRAVEL BAD FOR
FOUNDATIONS.
YEAH OK IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE
MARY MARY GRACE YEAH OK THAT'S
VERY GOOD THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NOW WE WILL HAVE ANY
COMMISSIONER QUESTIONS SO IF
THERE ARE ANY AND IT DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE THERE ARE I THINK
THAT'S TO BE EXPECTED BECAUSE
THE APPLICATION IS QUITE
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
OK SO NOW IN THAT CASE WE WILL
MOVE TO THE PUBLIC HEARING AND
SO WE'LL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
IT'S 222 MURRAY AVE. AND WE
DON'T HAVE ANYONE HERE I'M
GUESSING WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
ONLINE SO GOOD WE CAN CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND NOW I'LL ASK IF
THERE'S A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION OF TWO TO TWO
MURRAY AVENUE A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO PAVE A
DRIVEWAY AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SURROUNDING
RESOURCES AND MEETS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES FOR PAVED AREAS AND
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND A
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TO TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE SECOND OK BEFORE WE MOVE
FORWARD ON THAT MOTION SHOULD
BE NOT AMENDED TO SAY TO
INCLUDE THE PATIO.
YES RIGHT.
DID DID YOU CATCH THAT SO YOU
SAID AS PROPOSED BUT I THINK
YOU CAN SAY I WOULD AMEND THE
MOTION TO SAY AS PROPOSED WITH
THE WITH THE REMOVAL OF THE
EXISTING BRICK PAVER PATIO AND
REPLACEMENT WITH CONCRETE.
YEAH OK.
AND SO NOW WE NEED TO SECOND
THAT AGAIN PROBABLY SECOND OK
SO THAT WAS LET'S SEE THAT WAS
THE MOTION WAS BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN AND WE HAD AN AMENDMENT
BY COMMISSIONER SMITH AND THEN
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN
CAN HE SECOND HIS OWN MOTION
LIKE THAT.
THERE WAS A MOTION ON A MOTION
I DON'T KNOW DO WE KNOW THAT'S
OK?
YES.
YOU'RE LOOKING AT ME LIKE I'M
CRAZY.
JOE KAPLAN MADE THE MOTION THEN
SECONDED THEN SECONDED IT OK I
AMENDED THE TO THE AMENDED
MOTION.
YEAH.
SO IT'S REALLY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON SECONDED AND WE CAN WE
COULD JUST CALL IT A FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT FRIENDLY AMENDMENT WE
DON'T NEED TO THINK RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT
BY COMMISSIONER SMITH.
OK GREAT.
OK SO I JUST WANT TO TURN TO
STAFF ARE WE GOOD RIGHT NOW
WITH ALL OF THAT?
>> DID YOU GET THE WORD GOOD
AND THE GREEN SPACES STAY IN
GREEN SPACE?
NO NO GRAVEL NO LAVARACK GREEN
SPACE IS THAT THAT'S RIGHT.
>> OH DO WE NEED WE SHOULD
AMEND THE MOTION FOR THAT AS
WELL OR GOOD JUST LIKE IF AS
PROPOSED IT'S AS PROPOSED ANY
CHANGES TO IT.
WHAT I HEARD WAS THAT THE
APPLICANT IS GOOD WITH GREEN
SPACE THEN YOU'RE GOOD.
YEAH VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION OK AND SO LET'S
LET'S DISCUSS I HAD JUST A
QUICK QUESTION FOR STAFF
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE WE MAYBE
DON'T GET A LOT OF APPLICATIONS
FOR EXPOSED AGGREGATE CONCRETE
AND I JUST WAS WONDERING IS
THAT SORT OF ON THE LIST
OF APPROVED MATERIALS IN THE IN
THE DISTRICT AND YEAH THERE'S
NO SPECIFIC CONCRETE IS IS
INAPPROPRIATE MATERIAL DOESN'T
REALLY MATTER HOW IT LOOKS OR
HOW IT'S FINISHED.
OK, YEAH I WAS JUST JUST WAS
WONDERING ABOUT THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD.
OK SO I THINK THIS IS ALSO
QUITE STRAIGHTFORWARD.
ARE THERE ANY ANY DISCUSSION
POINTS HERE THAT ANYONE HAS
THINK IT'S.
YEAH LET'S JUST VOTE DOWN IF
WE'RE ALL READY TO VOTE OK ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES YES YES ALL
THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
GREAT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME TO
ABSOLUTELY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK SO WE'RE MOVING OFF
OF MURRAY STREET AND MURRAY AV
SORRY BUT WE'RE WE'RE GOING TO
STICK AROUND ANOTHER STREET FOR
A SECOND TOO SO WE HAVE F THREE
TWO ZERO SEVEN NORTH DIVISION
STREET AND WE WILL GET THE
STAFF REPORT WHENEVER YOU'RE
READY PLEASE.
RIGHT HERE WE ARE ON DIVISION
STREET ON THE WEST SIDE
OF DIVISION NORTH OF AND SOUTH
OF KATHERINE TO SEVEN NORTH
DIVISION IS THE CARRIAGE HOUSE
OF THE HISTORIC PORTMEIRION
HOUSE WHICH IS AT TWO OR FIVE
NORTH DIVISION.
>> THEY'RE ON THE SAME LOT ON
THAT CORNER OF ANING AND
DIVISION THE CARRIAGE HOUSE TWO
07 THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
HERE WAS ACTUALLY BUILT FIRST
IN THE MID 19TH CENTURY WAS
PURCHASED BY DR ALONSO PALMER
AND HIS WIFE IN 1868 AND THEN
LATER IN 1876 DR PALMER AND HIS
SECOND WIFE BUILT THE BIGGER
HOUSE THE GOTHIC REVIVAL ONE OR
TWO OR FIVE NORTH DIVISION TWO
SEVEN IS AN OWL SHAPED BRICK
HOUSE WITH A ONE STOREY SECTION
AND ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STOREY SECTION.
BOTH HAVE GABLE ROOFS THE ONE
STOREY SECTION FACES AND STREET
AND THE ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STOREY SECTION PIECES DIVISION
STREET AND HAS A DORMER ON
EITHER SIDE OF THE GABLE ROOF.
THE HOUSE IS LOCATED IN THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE PARK SO
IT'S PUSHED BACK FROM BOTH IN
AND DIVISION STREETS AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING FDA
APPROVAL TO CREATE A NEW WINDOW
OPENING ON THE NORTH ELEVATION
TO INSTALL AN EGRESS WINDOW
RIGHT SO HERE HERE'S THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS IF YOU'RE LOOKING FROM
DIVISION STREET AGAIN IT'S
PUSHED FAR BACK FROM THE
SIDEWALK.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THAT KIND
OF JOINT OF THE L SHAPE AND
THIS IS THE AREA THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE NORTH
ELEVATION THAT IS WHERE THE
PROPOSED NEW EGRESS WINDOW WILL
GO.
AND THIS IS AGAIN I'M LOOKING
AT A DIFFERENT JUST A DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVE ON THIS NORTH
ELEVATION.
SO HERE YOU CAN SEE THE
EXISTING SECOND FLOOR PLAN.
THERE'S JUST THE BRICK WALL AND
THEN ON THE PROPOSED HERE IS
WHERE THAT NEW EGRESS WINDOW
WOULD BE KIND OF IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE ELEVATION AND YOU CAN
SEE IT HERE JUST THE EXISTING
BRICK AND THEN PROPOSED IS THIS
EGRESS WINDOW PRETTY MUCH
CENTERED UNDERNEATH THE DORMER
AND THAT EXISTING WINDOW ABOVE
YOU CAN SEE HERE.
SO IT'LL BE ALIGNED WITH THE
BOTTOM OF THE WINDOW ON THE
ELEVATION FACING DIVISION
STREET.
>> HERE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
TALKING ABOUT THIS ELEVATION
AND I WILL WE READ STANDARD ONE
CAN'T REMEMBER IF WE DID TOO.
>> SO LET'S READ THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NINE NEW ADDITIONS, EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT DESTROY
HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC AND
INTEGRITY OF THE PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND PRESERVE
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES AS
WELL AS FEATURES THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REMOVE OR RADICALLY CHANGED
BUILDINGS AND THEY'RE FEATURES
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON
REAR OR OTHER NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED
BY THE NEW USE, THE DESIGN
SHOULD BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
OVERALL DESIGN OF THE BUILDING
BUT NOT DUPLICATE THE
FENESTRATION PATTERN IN
DETAILING OF OTHER CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS.
LET'S NOT
RECOMMEND TO
INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT IS
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REMOVE A CHARACTER DEFINING
WINDOW THAT IS UNREPAIRABLE AND
BLOCKING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO INSTALL
NEW WINDOWS THAT ARE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
APPEARANCE OF THE BUILDING OR
THAT OBSCURED DAMAGE OR DESTROY
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
RETAIN AND MAINTAIN WINDOWS IN
GOOD CONDITION.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
CHANGE THE NUMBER, LOCATION,
SIZE OR GLAZING PATTERN
OF WINDOWS BY CUTTING NEW
OPENINGS, BLOCKING IN OR
INSTALLING REPLACEMENT SASH
WHICH DOES NOT FIT THE HISTORIC
OPENING NOT APPROPRIATE TO
REMOVE A RADICALLY CHANGED
HISTORIC WINDOWS.
ALL RIGHT, I'LL ADD A FEW MORE
THINGS SO WE'LL GO BACK TO
PHOTO.
RIGHT.
SO THE APPLICANT PROPOSES
CREATING A NEW OPENING FOR THE
EGRESS WINDOW ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION GAIN.
IT'LL BE ON THAT UPPER LEVEL
CENTERED BENEATH THE EXISTING
DORMER AND DORMER WINDOW.
THE NEW WINDOW WILL BE SET BACK
APPROXIMATELY 16 FEET FROM THE
CORNER OF THAT DIVISION STREET
FACING ELEVATION.
THE MEASUREMENTS ARE
APPROXIMATELY TWO FEET FIVE
INCHES BY THREE FEET AND IT IS
SMALLER THAN THE DORMER WINDOW
ABOVE IT.
AND LIKE I SAID, THE BOTTOM
OF THE NEW WINDOW WILL ALIGN
WITH A BOTTOM OF THIS UPPER
STORY WINDOW EXISTING THE
PROPOSED WINDOW WILL BE A CLAD
WOOD CASEMENT WINDOW MATINS
WILL BE APPLIED TO THE INTERIOR
AND EXTERIOR WITH SPACERS.
THE NEW TRIM WILL BE COMPOSITE
BRICK MOLD AND WILL DIFFER
SLIGHTLY IN SIZE FROM THE
HISTORIC WINDOW TRIM STAFF
BELIEVES THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE
LOCATION FOR A NEW EGRESS
WINDOW.
IT WILL BE MINIMALLY VISIBLE
FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY BECAUSE
THE HOUSE IS THAT SO FAR BACK
AND BECAUSE THERE IS AS YOU CAN
SEE FROM A PHOTO ONLY A LITTLE
BIT OF ROOM BETWEEN TWO
OF SEVEN ACTIVISION AND THE
EXISTING BUILDING TO THE NORTH
THE PROPOSED SIZE AND TRIM ARE
APPROPRIATE AND ARE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC AS SHOWN ON THE
DRAWINGS.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE FOR NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANKS MARIJANA.
NOW WE'LL GO TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> MR. KAPLAN, YOUR REPORT
PLEASE.
YEAH SO I MEAN THE MAIN I DON'T
THINK EITHER OF US HAD ISSUES
WITH WITH WHERE THIS IS LOCATED
THE BUILDING IN TERMS OF TRYING
TO FIND A PLACE WHERE NEAREST
WINDOW WHERE IT IS MINIMALLY
IMPACTFUL ON WHAT YOU SEE FROM
THE STREET.
I THINK THIS IS THE BEST CHOICE
CURRENTLY ALTHOUGH WE DO NOT
COINCIDE IT APPEAR THAT THE
DESIGN UPSTAIRS HAS TWO
BEDROOMS WHERE IN ORDER TO HAVE
THAT EGRESS WINDOW SERVE BOTH
OF THEM THE THE DIVIDING WALL
BETWEEN THEM IS PULLED BACK OR
WAS OFF TO ONE SIDE I GUESS.
BUT EITHER WAY THE PURPOSE
OF ADDING THIS WINDOW WAS TO
GET THAT SECOND BEDROOM TO HAVE
ITS OWN INDEPENDENT EGRESS.
THE ONLY OTHER ELEMENT
DISCUSSION I REMEMBER US SORT
OF GOING OVER WAS JUST TRYING
TO DECIDE HOW FAR BACK OR WHERE
THE PROPERTY LINE WAS WOULD BE
THE THE NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR.
IT'S QUITE A TIGHT SPACE AND
YOU KNOW, IS THERE ROOM FOR THE
WINDOW TO SWING AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT FROM AN
HISTORICAL DISTRICT PERSPECTIVE
THE LOCATION IS AS FAR YEAH,
I'M GUESSING I AGREE AND I'M
GUESSING THAT THEY THEY WANTED
TO PUT THE WINDOW AS FAR BACK
AS POSSIBLE FROM THE SIDEWALK.
BUT OBVIOUSLY YOU SAW WHERE THE
BEDROOM WAS ON THE FLOOR
PLAYING THE BEDROOMS IN THAT
FRONT ROOM SO YOU CAN ONLY PUT
IT SO FAR BACK AND BECAUSE
OF WHERE THE STAIR IS IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT THAT IT WON'T BE
QUITE CENTERED WITH THE DORMER
.
THAT'S THAT'S SOMETHING WE
FOUND OUT ON SITE.
>> IT'S YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO
TELL FROM ANYWHERE PUBLIC RIGHT
AWAY.
>> I GUESS EVEN IN THE DRAWING
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S A LITTLE OFF
CENTER BUT ANYWAY SO IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE CENTERED MOST
LIKELY.
AND THEN ALSO THERE'S A GARAGE
OR SOME SORT OF ACCESSORY
BUILDING RIGHT OPPOSITE IT AND
IT'S WHO KNOWS.
YEAH.
IF YOU CAN EVEN OPEN IT THE
PROPERTY LINE WAS SORT LIKE
SOMEWHERE RIGHT?
YOU DIDN'T REALLY KNOW.
>> THERE'S THE OTHER THING IS
THERE IS A POWER LINE GOING
RIGHT OVER THE EVE OF THE
GARAGE LIKE YEAH.
JUST LIKE THAT'S ACTUALLY ON
TOP OF THE EVE OF THE GARAGE.
SO THERE'S A LOT GOING ON BUT
IT'S ALL MOSTLY ZONING STUFF
AND SO REALLY WHAT WE CARE
ABOUT IS THAT IT'S ON THE IT'S
ON MORE OR LESS THE THE REAR
IT'S ON A SIDE ELEVATION REALLY
FROM THE SIDEWALK BUT IT'S
PUSHED FAR BACK ON A SIDE
ELEVATION AND SO YEAH I THINK
ON SITE WE APPRECIATED WHERE
THIS WAS LOCATED.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL MOVE TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENT STATION.
SO I THINK THE APPLICANTS HERE
RIGHT YEAH GREAT.
SO WOULD YOU PLEASE COME TO THE
PODIUM, STATE YOUR NAME ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD YOU'VE GOT UP TO
FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK ABOUT
YOUR APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
YES, MY NAME IS PAEDO EVIDENCE
AND I DID THE INTERIOR REMODEL
ON TWO OR SEVEN OVER THE SUMMER
HERE.
SO IT'S A FUN PROJECT.
YOU KNOW, HISTORICAL VALUE
OF IT IS YOU KNOW, IT'S JUST
THE INTRINSIC SORT OF A VALUE I
THINK THAT EVERYONE HAS HERE
OF JUST THE TWO FIVE TO SEVEN
STRUCTURES AS YOU KNOW, IT'S AS
SOMETHING SPECIAL AND YEAH,
JUST TO MINIMIZE THE THE YOU
KNOW OF IT TAKEN AWAY FROM THE
DETAIL, YOU KNOW, WE PROPOSED A
SPOT AS FAR BACK AS POSSIBLE IN
THAT BEDROOM BUT IN THE SAME
TOKEN TRYING TO KEEP IN MIND
THE SINCE IT IS A STUDENT HOUSE
AND IN BOTH OF THEM TWO OR FIVE
UNTIL SEVEN AND THEN THE TWO OR
SEVEN BEING A STUDENT HOUSE THE
PROPERTY OWNER WANTS IT TO BE
ILLEGAL SIX BEDROOMS SO THAT
YOU KNOW, IT'S COMPLIANT WITH
THE THE HOUSING FOR ANN ARBOR
AND IT DOES THE THE TWENTY BUT
WE WILL GET THE THE CLEARANCE
OF THE THE KEYSPAN OPENING
WHICH IS GOOD SO WE WILL GET
THAT I NOTICED BUT I'LL HAVE TO
GO TO BACK JUST TO GET A
BUILDING PERMIT TO DO THE WORK
ON THAT TO BE ABLE TO FOLLOW
THROUGH THE NEXT STEP IF THIS
IS INDEED PASSED HERE TODAY.
YEAH I THINK YOU KNOW JUST THE
IMPACT WILL BE MINIMAL BUT
IT'LL BE ENOUGH FOR THE TENANTS
A COUPLE OF TENANTS HERE BUT
HELLO WELCOME.
ENJOYING THE THE THE NEW
REMODEL ON THE INTERIOR.
GREAT.
AND YEAH I JUST THOUGHT IT
WOULD JUST KIND OF ADD TO THE
JUST THE JUST JUST THE NICE
FEATURES OF THE HOUSE JUST TO
MAKE IT MORE JUST KIND OF BRING
IT ALL INTO THE TWENTY FIRST
CENTURY AND I STILL STILL KEEP
LIFE IN THE STRUCTURE JUST YOU
KNOW BECAUSE IF YOU JUST KIND
OF LEAVE IT YOU KNOW WE GOT TO
KEEP UP THE STRUCTURE WE STILL
HAVE TO KEEP UP THE TIMES
OTHERWISE THEY'RE GOING TO JUST
FALL BEHIND AND YOU KNOW YOU
SEE IT SOMETIMES IT'S SAD BUT I
THINK JUST WITH ALL THE NEW
STUDENTS COMING IN EVERYTHING
AND IT SEEMS LIKE A LOT OF THE
STUDENTS THAT DO AND JUST
TALKING TO THESE GIRLS, YOU
KNOW, BEFORE THEY MOVED IN THE
NEW TENANTS HERE AND THEY YOU
KNOW, THEY REALLY HAD
APPRECIATION FOR THE
ARCHITECTURE OF IT IN THE IN
THE HISTORY.
SO SOMETHING TO BE YOU KNOW,
IT'S COOL THAT THE NEXT
GENERATION IS TAKING THAT
APPRECIATION.
BUT THANK YOU.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE YOU.
>> ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONER
QUESTIONS YOU ARE WE GOOD OK
VERY GOOD.
THEN IN THAT CASE WE WILL OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR 207
NORTH DIVISION STREET.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AND WE DON'T HAVE
ANYONE COMING TO SPEAK HERE AND
NO ONE ONLINE.
>> OK, SO NOW THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND I WOULD
ASK IF THERE'S A COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
ON THIS ITEM THROUGH.
SURE.
THANK YOU.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 207 NORTH
DIVISION STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE DIVISION STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CREATE A
NEW OPENING ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION TO INSTALL AN EGRESS
WINDOW AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO AND NINE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND WINDOWS AS WELL AS THE
NRA HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS.
IS THERE A SECOND TIME MOTION
SECOND GREAT THANK YOU.
THAT IS BY COMMISSIONER KAPLAN
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
I WILL JUST SAY ABOUT THE
MOTIONS FOR THE FOR THE NEW
COMMISSIONERS AND JUST FOR
ANYONE INTERESTED THAT OUR
INCREDIBLE STAFF AT THE CITY
CREATES THOSE MOTIONS AND SO
WE'RE WE'RE MAKING THEM AS
WE'RE READING THEM BUT ALSO WE
CAN MAKE ANY MOTION FOR YOU
KNOW, WE CAN CHANGE IT OR DO
WHATEVER.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S ONE TO
ADD THAT AND ONCE AGAIN, THANK
YOU TO THE INCREDIBLE CITY
STAFF BUT LET'S GET BACK TO THE
HEARING.
>> SO OK, THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD ONE.
ALSO ONE EGRESS WINDOW ON A NON
STREET FACING ELEVATION.
THERE'S CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES BUT IT'S IT'S ON THE
SUBORDINATE ELEVATION IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION NOW?
OK, YEAH WELL THAT'S GOOD THEN
LET'S LET'S GO LET'S GO RIGHT
TO A VOTE.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION SAY YES YES YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NOW OK
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED
AND IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU KNOW TO
GET THE THE PERMITS
NEXT SO
YEAH.
GET THOSE GET THOSE BUILDING
PERMITS.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
AND SIT TIGHT BECAUSE WE MADE
THAT CHANGE TO THE TO THE
AGENDA.
RIGHT AND SO IS IT FOURTH AVE
THAT WE'RE GOING OK SO NOW THIS
WAS F SEVEN WE'LL TALK ABOUT
203 NORTH FOURTH AVE. APOLOGIES
TO ALL THE OTHER HEARINGS THAT
ARE BEING SHIFTED BUT WE
APPRECIATE YOUR PATIENCE.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, WHENEVER YOU'RE READY THE
STAFF REPORT PLEASE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THIS IS A STOREFRONT AT TWO
OR THREE NORTH FOURTH AVENUE.
IT IS PART OF THE PARCEL WITH
ADDRESSES TO ONE TO TWO A SEVEN
THE NORTH HALF NORTH ONE STORY
HALF OF THIS BUILDING WHICH YOU
CAN'T SEE FROM THIS PHOTO FIRST
APPEARS ON THE NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE SANDBORN MAP BY NINETEEN
TWENTY NINE THE WASHINGTON OIL
COMPANY WAS LISTED AT THE
ADDRESS AND THAT IS THE TIME
WHICH THIS TUTERA REVIVE BRICK
FACADE WAS ADDED ON THE S ON
THE TOWARDS FOURTH AVENUE
AROUND NINETEEN SEVENTY THIS
ONE STORY CONCRETE BLOCK
ADDITION WAS ADDED AND THIS IS
THE TWO OR THREE NORTH FOURTH
AVENUE STOREFRONT THAT WE'LL BE
TALKING ABOUT TONIGHT ACCORDING
TO BUILDING PERMITS THE
STOREFRONT SYSTEM THAT YOU CAN
START TO SEE IN THIS PHOTO WAS
ADDED OR WAS UPDATED IN
NINETEEN NINETY SEVEN AND THE
AWNING THAT YOU CAN SEE WAS
ADDED IN TWO THOUSAND ONE.
SO WE ARE ON FIFTH AVENUE EAST
OF AND ST. OR AT THE CORNER
OF STREET AND NORTH AVENUE AND
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING FDA
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A NEW DOOR
IN A NEW OPENING ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION FOR BARRIER FREE
ACCESS AND ADD US SCONCES AND
AN AWNING WITH THAT DOOR AND
THEN A PAVED LANDING AND A RAMP
AND PLANTERS.
>> SO THIS IS AGAIN NINETEEN
SEVENTY THIS CONCRETE BAR ONE
STORY EDITION AND THIS IS THE
AREA THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT FOR
A NEW DOOR FOR BARRIER FREE
ACCESS THERE IS AN EXISTING
WELL HERE WHICH YOU KIND OF SEE
IT'S RIGHT HERE IN THE PHOTO.
THIS IS THE STOREFRONT AGAIN SO
THIS IS THE THERE IS AN
EXISTING DOOR HERE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S THIS
STEP THEN HERE WE HAVE THE SITE
AN EXISTING CONDITION.
SO THERE IS THIS PLANTER PAD
THAT'S THE CONCRETE WALL AND
THEN THIS IS THE EXISTING BRICK
WALKWAY.
THEN HERE WE HAVE IT KIND
OF ZOOMED IN.
SO THIS PLAN TURNING BAD WILL
BE REMOVED.
THE DOOR OPENING WILL GO HERE
AND THEN THIS LANDING WILL BE
REPAVED.
IT'LL BE SOME PLANTERS ADDED
AND THAT RAMP WHICH YOU CAN SEE
RIGHT HERE SO DOORWAY WITH THE
AWNING OVER IT RAMP AND THEN
SOME PLANTERS AND THIS WILL BE
REPAIRED WITH CONCRETE YOU CAN
SEE A LITTLE BIT CLOSER THAN
JUST AN OVERALL WATER PLAN.
SO THIS IS THAT STORE THAT
COMMERCIAL AREA.
>> THIS WILL BE THE DOOR DOWN
HERE ELEVATION.
>> THIS IS THE EXISTING
CONDITION JUST THAT CONCRETE
BLOCK AND THEN THIS WILL BE
THAT NEW DOOR OPENING
ASSIMILATING PERSPECTIVE.
YOU LEARN SOME OF THE
APPLICATIONS PHOTOS, EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THEN THIS IS
THAT AREA OF WORK THEY'RE ALL
RIGHT.
WE ALREADY READ STANDARD ONE TO
AND NINE AND TEN.
SO I'LL GO TO THE GUIDELINES
FROM THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
ENTRANCES AND PORCHES.
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL ENTRANCES OR
PORCHES WHEN REQUIRED FOR THE
NEW USE IN A MANNER THAT
PRESERVES A HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING AND LIMITING
ALTERATIONS TO NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED CUT NEW
ENTRANCES ON A PRIMARY
ELEVATION.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW ENTRANTS OR
PORCH THAT IS INCOMPATIBLE IN
SIZE SCALE MATERIAL AND COLOR
FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY
THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS
CHARACTER DEFYING SPACES SO
THAT ANY CODE REQUIRED WORK
WILL NOT RESULT IN THEIR DAMAGE
OR LOSS.
AND IT IS ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
COMPLY WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY
CODES FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL
A NEW DOOR OPENING.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO COMPLY
WITH VERY FREE AND SAFETY CODES
IN A MANNER THAT ENSURES THE
PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES FOR AWNINGS.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO MOUNT A
STANDARD STOREFRONT AWNING SO
THE BOTTOM IS AT LEAST SEVEN
FEET FROM THE SIDEWALK.
ALTHOUGH AP IS PREFERRED IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO PROJECT THE
AWNING NO MORE THAN FOUR FEET
FROM THE BASE OF THE BUILDING
AND TO USE CANVAS OR OTHER
FABRICS FOR AWNINGS AND BANNERS
.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO ATTACH
AWNINGS JUST BELOW STOREFRONT
CORNERS TO FIT IN WITH THE
STOREFRONT OPENING ANTIMA
HONEGGER BANNERS ON MASONRY
STRUCTURES THROUGH MORTAR
JOINTS AND NOT THROUGH BRICK
STONE OR TERRACOTTA.
AND IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL
BANNERS AND AWNINGS SO THAT
THEY DO NOT COVER OR REQUIRE
THE REMOVAL OF ANY HISTORIC
DETAIL.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL GO BACK TO A PHOTO AND
JUST ADD A COUPLE OF NOTES SO
THIS IS A NEW DOUBLE LEAF METAL
STORE FRONT DOOR THAT WILL BE
INSTALLED IN THE CONCRETE BLOCK
AGAIN THIS WAS IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY ADDITION.
SO IT IS NONCONTRIBUTING KIND
OF A WEIRD ONE IN FRONT OF THAT
TUTERA REVIVAL BUILDING BUT
HERE IT IS.
THERE WILL BE TWO OF THOSE
WALLS GANS'S ON EITHER SIDE
OF THE NEW DOOR OPENING THOSE
SPECIFICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
THE APPLICATION MATERIALS.
THERE IS THIS TRIANGULAR AWNING
THAT IS SHOWN ABOVE THE DOUBLE
DOORS ON THE DRAWING.
GENERALLY AWNINGS ARE
APPROPRIATE ABOVE DOORS AND
COMMERCIAL SETTINGS.
DETAILS WERE NOT INCLUDED IN
THE DRAWING SET SO JUST A NOTE
THAT STAFF HAS INCLUDED SOME
OF THE CONDITIONS THAT WE WENT
WE WENT THROUGH SOME OF THE
APPROPRIATE AND NOT APPROPRIATE
FOR AWNINGS.
SO THOSE ARE JUST INCLUDED AS A
CONDITION IN THE MOTION TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE AWNING MEETS THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES THOUGH
GENERALLY IT DOES LOOK FINE
FROM THESE DRAWINGS AS PART
OF THE INSTALLATION PLANTING
BED AND A PATHWAY TO SS OF THE
ELEVATION WILL BE REMOVED.
THAT AREA WILL BE PAVED WITH
CONCRETE THEN THE BARRIER FREE
ACCESS RAMP WILL BE INSTALLED.
THERE'S NO DIMENSIONS FOR THE
RAMPS BUT UP HERE FOR THE RAMP
IT APPEARS TO BE APPROPRIATELY
SIZED ON THE DRAWINGS PLANTERS
WILL BE ADDED ON THE EAST SIDE
OF THE CONCRETE LANDING SO
IT'LL BE BETWEEN THE RAMP AND
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AND
THERE IS ALSO A BIG HOOP SHOWN
ON THE DRAWINGS THAT IS
DESIGNED PER THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY STANDARDS
THOUGH THIS WILL BE HIGHLY
VISIBLE BECAUSE OF THE EMPTY
LOT TO THE SOUTH.
STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE SITE
ELEVATION OF THIS
NONCONTRIBUTING DESIGN IS AN
APPROPRIATE LOCATION FOR A NEW
DOOR GIVEN THE NEED FOR BARRIER
FREE ACCESS THERE WILL BE NO
IMPACT ON HISTORIC MATERIALS
THE AMOUNT OF IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE ON THE LANDING WILL
REMAIN THE SAME.
SO STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE NEIGHBORING BUILDINGS
AND THE SURROUNDING HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MARIANNA.
OK, NOW WE'LL HAVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
COMMISSIONER, PLEASE.
YOU KNOW I THINK THE FIRST
THING THAT STRUCK ME ON A VISIT
WAS THAT THE CHANGES THAT ARE
BEING SUGGESTED ARE TO A STARK
WHITE CINDER BLOCK WALL THAT'S
NOT PART OF THE THE ACTUAL THE
VISUALLY SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC
PART OF THE BUILDING AND IF
ANYTHING BREAKING UP THAT
SURFACE I THINK SERVES TO
DETRACT LESS FROM THE REALLY
PRETTY ADJACENT ARCHITECTURE
ONE WELL, I THINK THAT'S ALL
THAT'S ALL I'LL SAY ABOUT AS
FAR AS THE STEP THIS REPORT I
HAVE QUESTIONS LATER.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH THE STAFF
REPORT AND WITH COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN IT IS HIGHLY VISIBLE
LIKE WAS MENTIONED IN THE STAFF
REPORT AND AND YEAH I THINK
THAT STANDING THERE REALLY THE
THOUGHT IS JUST LIKE IS THIS
COMPATIBLE WITH WHAT'S THERE
HISTORICALLY BUT REALLY WHAT
YOU'RE LOOKING AT IT'S REALLY
HARD.
YOU REALLY HAVE TO SQUINT TO
SEE I MEAN THE CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE THERE BUT
THERE'S ALSO A LOT GOING ON.
IT IS GOING TO ADD KIND OF ONE
MORE ELEMENT AND THEN YOU DON'T
WANT IT TO OBSCURE WHAT LITTLE
BIT YOU CAN SEE AND AND YOU
KNOW, IT FELT LIKE, YOU KNOW,
IT'S SO VISIBLE THAT YOU CAN
SEE YOU'LL BE ABLE TO SEE
AROUND THAT YES, THERE'LL BE AN
AWNING BUT YOU'LL BE ABLE TO
SEE AROUND THE AWNING BECAUSE
THE SIDE IS SO VISIBLE.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL INVITE THE
APPLICANT UP FOR THE APPLICANT
PRESENTATION SO ONCE AGAIN,
PETE, THE POLICE WILL BE ON.
OH YEAH.
JUST SORRY ABOUT THAT BECAUSE I
COULD DO A BETTER JOB.
>> THANK YOU
.
SO THIS IS THE SPECS ON THE
AWNING.
IS THERE A HEIGHT MEASUREMENT
SIDE ELEVATION ON IT?
OK, I SEE THE PROJECTION FROM
THE BUILDING IS THERE ALSO A
HEIGHT AN ELEVATION HEIGHT
OF THE RIM OF THE ON OK I DON'T
SEE THAT.
OH YEAH I DO SEVEN FEET MINIMUM
AND IT'S TOO FOOT TEN
PROJECTION.
THANKS PETE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OK I GUESS STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS ARE RECORD AGAIN
AND IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING ELSE
TO ADD FROM WHAT YOU'VE HEARD
OR GIVE YOUR OWN PRESENTATION
THE FLOOR IS YOURS RIGHT.
THANK THANKS.
YES MY NAME IS PETER ONE
OF PETE STURGEONS AND I AM
PROPOSING A NEW BARRIER FREE
ENTRY INTO THE FIRST FLOOR
OF TWO OR THREE NORTH FOURTH
AVENUE AND THE REASON FOR IT IS
THE FRONT THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING JUST HAS A LITTLE
THREE DOOR THAT HAS A STEP UP
AND UNFORTUNATELY IT MAKES IT
HARD FOR A LOT PEOPLE TO BE
ABLE TO ENTER AND EXIT
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT'S YOU KNOW,
WHEN WE GET THE ADVERSE WEATHER
IN MICHIGAN FROM SNOW AND ICE
AND EVERYTHING ELSE AND EVEN A
RAINY DAY OR EVEN A SUNNY DAY
WHEN YOU CAN MISS THAT STUFF
AND YOU COULD FALL AND THAT'S
SOMETHING WE DON'T WANT AND
ALSO THE THE SIDE WHERE THAT
BELLA DENHA THE THREE
DIMENSIONAL LETTERING WAS ON
THAT THAT YOU CAN SEE FOUR OR
PROPOSED DOOR IS GOING TO BE
IT'S PRETTY UGLY.
IT NEEDS SOMETHING.
IT DEFINITELY DOES.
BUT JUST THE FUNCTIONALITY
PURPOSE OF IT IS IS YOU KNOW,
IT'S NEEDED FOR
THAT WANTS TO
USE IT FOR LIKE A RESTAURANT.
THINGS ARE REALLY POPPING DOWN
THERE RIGHT NOW, YOU KNOW, AS
FAR AS YOU KNOW THERE'S OTHER
SITES THAT ARE BRINGING MORE
PEOPLE IN INCREASING DENSITY
AND EVERYTHING.
SO IT'S GOING TO SEE A LOT
OF FOOT TRAFFIC AND I THINK
IT'S GOING TO YOU KNOW, ANY
PROSPECTIVE FUTURE TENANT THAT
THE LANDLORD FINDS TO FILL IT
IS GOING TO BE VERY HAPPY WITH
THIS SITE WITH THAT DOOR THERE
AND THEN BEING BARRIER FREE AND
FOLLOWING OUR CURRENT ADA
GUIDELINES WHICH ARE OF THE
UTMOST IMPORTANCE FOR ANY
COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE THIS DAY
AND AGE.
YOU KNOW, SAFETY IS NUMBER ONE
AND THAT'S THAT'S THE KEY HERE.
BUT I THINK JUST WITH WHAT THE
ARCHITECT HAS, WHAT I'M
PROPOSING TO DO IS I THINK IT'S
GOING TO ADD TO THE VALUE
OF THE BUILDING BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW I MEAN JUST WITH IT BEING
AS YOU KNOW, THAT BEING
SEPARATE AND BEING IN THE 70S,
IT'S DEFINITELY IT DOESN'T FIT
IN AS IT WAS BEFORE WITH THE
TUDOR REVIVAL THE REVIVAL IS
REALLY NICE BUT AT THE SAME
TIME I DON'T THINK IT'S GOING
TO OUTWEIGH THE TO A REVIVAL
BECAUSE A LOT OF TIMES WE SEE A
LOT OF MIXED ARCHITECTURE IN
THE HISTORIC AREA AND A COUPLE
OTHER ONES THAT I'VE WORKED OUT
WHERE YOU HAVE, YOU KNOW, A
HISTORIC BUILDING RIGHT NEXT TO
IT.
THEY PUT SOMETHING IN LIKE 30
YEARS LATER AND IT'S NOT
HISTORIC BUT YOU KNOW, THE
MISHMASH IT WORKS WITH
SOMETIMES BECAUSE THEY'RE
ARCHITECTS, YOU KNOW, TOOK INTO
CONSIDERATION AT THE TIME OF ,
YOU KNOW, THE 1940S OR 50S AND
HE SAID OK, WELL LET'S STILL
MAKE THIS MAKE SENSE.
LET'S MAKE IT YOU KNOW, LET'S
MAKE IT WORK.
AND I THINK THE WAY YOU KNOW,
I'M PROPOSING IN THE WAY THE
ARCHITECTS HAVE A DRAW AND I
THINK IT WILL MAKE THIS
BUILDING MAKES SENSE AND IT'LL
YOU KNOW, JUST JUST BE
SOMETHING THAT WILL REALLY BE
PROUD OF FOR THE NEXT YOU
DECADES TO COME.
SO GREAT.
OK, IS THAT YOUR PRESENTATION?
YEAH.
GREAT.
OK, THANK YOU.
JUST HOLD TIGHT RIGHT THERE
BECAUSE I THINK WE HAVE SOME
QUESTIONS FOR YOU OF COURSE.
APPRECIATE THAT.
>> IT SOUNDED LIKE MR. KAPLAN
HAD TO HAVE A COUPLE ALMOST ALL
PERTAINING TO THE EYE.
I SEE WHAT YOUR INTENT IS WITH
THE DOOR AND PERSONALLY DON'T
DON'T HAVE ISSUES WITH I'M
LOOKING FOR THE CITATION OF AN
INTERIOR GUIDELINE FROM THE
STAFF REPORT THAT TALKED ABOUT
EARNINGS WHEN YOU READ IT I
DON'T SEE IT HERE.
I MAY JUST BE LOST BUT DID IT
NOT SAY SOMETHING ABOUT THE
AWNING MEANING TO RELATE TO
OTHER EXISTING BUILDINGS ON THE
BUILDING?
I GUESS I'M I'M LOOKING AT THE
ELEVATION OF THE AWNING YOU'RE
PROPOSING I'M SEEING IT'S A
DIFFERENT FROM THE AWNINGS THAT
ARE ALREADY AT THE CORNER AND
I'M WONDERING IF YOU LET ME
FOLLOW THE GUIDELINES THAT YOU
READ WERE SUGGESTING THAT THOSE
SHOULD SOMEHOW BE SYNCHED TO
EACH OTHER IN SOME WAY IN THE
MIDST OF THAT I'D LIKE TO ASK
ANOTHER QUESTION IS THE THE
MANUFACTURERS GRAPHICS OF THE
AWNING
AND THE DRAWING OF THE
AWNING AS YOU ENVISION IT FROM
THE BUILDING SEEM DIFFERENT TO
ME.
>> I AM JUST WONDERING WHAT THE
VISION ACTUALLY SO SO IF IT'S
JUST A STANDARD TIME FRAME YOU
PUT ON ANY MODERN BUILDING
WHERE WHERE IT'S KIND OF A
SOMEWHAT SEE-THROUGH PLASTIC OR
CANVAS WHERE LIGHT MOVES
THROUGH IT VERY EASY AND IT'S
VERY BRIGHTLY COLORED.
ARE YOU ENVISIONING IT AS IT
SHOWS IT AS A POTENTIAL SIGN OR
GRAPHICS CARRIER FOR LIKE THE
NAME OF THE BUSINESS THAT WOULD
RENT THE SPACE?
DO YOU SEE THIS AS AS HAVING
THE POTENTIAL FOR SIGNAGE OR IS
IT MERELY TO KEEP RAIN OFF
PEOPLE'S HEADS WHEN THEY'RE
COMING IN THE DOOR?
>> OH, TO KEEP PEOPLE'S RAIN
OFF THEIR HEADS AND ALSO USE
AND EVERYTHING ELSE THAT THAT
BE THE KEY TAKEAWAY FROM THIS
IS SAFETY.
ARE THERE ANY IDEAS ABOUT WHAT
THE WHAT THE COLORS OR THE THE
SPECIFIC MATERIAL CHOICES WOULD
BE OF THE OF THE IT I KNOW
WOULD BE FABRIC AND THEN
OF COURSE ALUMINUM FRAMEWORK
THAT I'M SURE THAT WOULD BE
ENCASED IN WRAPPED WITH THE
FRAMEWORK COLOR WISE.
WELL I THINK OTHERWISE
PERSONALLY I WOULD DEFINITELY
DO IT SO IT'D BE COHESIVE WITH
THE BUILDING ITSELF.
YEAH, NOTHING THAT WOULD BE
OUTSTANDING.
I KNOW LIKE YOU COME DOWN TO
THE SAME PART OF WHAT THE YOU
KNOW THE FUTURE TENANT WOULD
HAVE AND RIGHT NOW SINCE THE
REASON THE FUTURE THERE'S
PEOPLE THAT WANT TO BE LOOKING
AT IT BUT THIS WOULD BE A KEY
THING TO BE ABLE TO YOU KNOW,
KEEP THIS KEEP THIS PROPERTY
ALIVE.
SO I DON'T I DON'T HAVE A BUT I
I WOULD YOU KNOW ER BACK TO YOU
GUYS ABOUT YEAH.
THE COLOR I THINK WE NEED TO BE
COHESIVE MORE THAN JUST THE
SIGNAGE OF YOU KNOW COLOR AND
EVERYTHING BECAUSE WE DON'T
WANT ANYTHING THAT YOU KNOW GOT
TO GO TO REVIVE WHEN YOU THROW
SOMETHING YOU KNOW BIG SPLASH
OF COLOR THERE DOESN'T ALWAYS
WORK.
THAT'S WHAT WORRIES ME.
YEAH.
>> UM I THINK THE ONE THAT YOU
WERE TALKING ABOUT THIS IS FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES AND THE FINAL
SENTENCE IS CONSIDERATION
SHOULD BE GIVEN THE HEIGHT
OF NEIGHBORING AWNINGS IS UP.
>> YES, THAT'S WHAT I THAT'S
WHAT I HEARD SAY.
SO GIVEN THAT AM I READING THAT
CORRECTLY IN YOUR MIND THAT THE
THE CONSIDERATION THAT WE WOULD
BE GIVING TO NEIGHBORING
WARNINGS WOULD BE THE CORNER
OVERHANG THAT I SEE JUST
IMMEDIATELY NEXT TO THIS FOR
THE RETURN?
>> YES.
YEAH.
THE BUILD OUTS FOR HIS RETURN
WHICH IS JUST COMES UP, YOU
KNOW, KIND OF WRAPS AROUND JUST
THEY BUILD UP TO THE TOP
OF THAT PARAPET RIGHT ON THAT
ROOF THERE.
>> YEAH.
IT'S IT'S A CONSIDERATION
SHOULD BE GIVEN TO ADJACENT
AWNINGS.
>> YOU KNOW YOU DON'T WANT
THINGS TO LOOK OUT OF BALANCE.
ALSO THOUGH IT'S APPROPRIATE
FOR AWNINGS TO BE DIRECTLY OVER
THE DOOR AND SO IT'S YOU KNOW,
IT'S A CONSIDERATION.
IT'S SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, WHERE WHERE MAKES THE
MOST SENSE FOR PRACTICAL
REASONS AND ALSO FOR THE
ESTHETIC OF THE NEARBY AWNINGS
THAT IT'S THAT'S ANOTHER ONE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I ALSO HAVE A SIMILAR QUESTION
.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT?
>> OK, THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE IT.
OH YEAH.
>> SO NOW YEAH WE'LL MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING THIS IS TO
THREE NORTH FOURTH AVE. SO THE
PUBLIC HEARING IS NOW OPEN FOR
THIS ITEM AND IF SOMEONE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK TO THIS ITEM THAT
WAS THE TIME IF YEAH.
PLEASE PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES.
HELLO RYAN PENALOSA SIX ONE
FIVE WEST JEFFERSON.
I ACTUALLY DID NOT ANTICIPATE
SPEAKING ON THIS PROJECT BUT I
LIVED ACROSS THE STREET TWO
ZERO ONE EAST AND STREET FOR
ABOUT FIVE YEARS SO MY BEDROOM
STARED AT THIS BUILDING EACH
DAY WHEN I'D GO INTO MY
APARTMENT WITH MY WIFE WE
WALKED UNDER A GREEN AWNING
OF SIMILAR HEIGHT AND I WOULD
WALK MY DOG OUTSIDE THIS
BUILDING AND THERE WAS ALWAYS
CONFUSION AROUND WHERE THE
ENTRANCE WAS TO THE SALON.
SO I DO REALLY LIKE THIS DESIGN
BECAUSE I THINK THE PEDESTRIAN
FOOT TRAFFIC TO THE FARMER'S
MARKET GOES RIGHT DOWN THAT
STREET AND I JUST THINK IT'S A
MUCH CLEARER OPENING.
SO AGAIN I DID NOT ANTICIPATE
COMMENTING BUT I HAVE FIRST
HAND EXPERIENCE.
I USED TO LOOK RIGHT OUT AT
THIS BUILDING SO I FELT THE
NEED TO JUST PUBLICLY SUPPORTED
.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
VERY GOOD.
ANYTHING ANYONE ELSE FOR PUBLIC
HEARING.
OK, ANYONE ONLINE NOW?
>> GOOD.
OK SO NOW WE'LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL ASK
IF THERE'S A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS
ITEM.
I WANT TO DO IT.
SURE.
OK, THAT'S FINE.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION TO A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION OF TWO OR
THREE NORTH AVENUE A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
FOURTH AND HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
INSTALL A DOOR IN A NEW OPENING
ON THE SOUTH ELEVATOR OF THE
ONE STOREY ADDITION TO PROVIDE
BARRIER FREE ACCESS ON THE
CONDITION THAT THE AWNING ABOVE
THE DOOR IS FABRIC DOES NOT
EXTEND MORE THAN FOUR FEET FROM
THE BUILDING FACE AND IS AT
LEAST SEVEN FEET ABOVE THE
SIDEWALK AS CONDITIONS.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ENTRANCES AND PORCHES AS WELL
AS THE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO DOORS AND COMMERCIAL
AWNINGS.
SECOND, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THAT WAS MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLAN AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON THE RIGHT
TO REMEMBER IT WAS A VERY QUIET
IT WAS A THANK YOU SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SMITH.
THANK YOU BOTH.
OK, SO NOW WE'LL HAVE SOME
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
>> I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, THIS
IS GENERALLY STRAIGHTFORWARD
MOSTLY BECAUSE IT'S IT'S WORK
DONE ON A NONCONTRIBUTING PART
OF A PROJECT ALTHOUGH IT IS
RIGHT ADJACENT TO A HISTORIC
PARK.
RIGHT.
SO I THINK THAT THAT YOU IT'S
NOT IT'S NOT A SLAM DUNK IN
THAT IT'S VERY CLOSE TO THE TO
THE HISTORIC PART OF THE
STRUCTURE.
I THINK WE HAVE A LOT
OF STOREFRONT PROJECTS WHERE
THEY'RE LIKE REMOVING A
EXISTING MODERN STOREFRONT AND
PUTTING A NEW ONE IN AND IT'S
ALWAYS LIKE IT SEEMS VERY BASIC
THOSE IN A WAY WHERE IT'S LIKE
OH IT'S GOING AWAY AND NEW ONES
COMING.
YOU CAN TOTALLY PICTURE IT.
THIS IS A LITTLE HARDER BECAUSE
THE EXISTING STOREFRONT IS
STAYING AND IT'S JUST KIND
OF GROWING AROUND THE CORNER.
>> I THINK THAT THE PROJECT
THEY'RE NOT MATCHING THE
TRANSOM THE HEIGHT OF THE
EXISTING STOREFRONT AND SO
THAT'S I'M GETTING HELD UP A
LITTLE BIT ON THAT AND THAT IS
CAUSING THE AWNING HEIGHT TO
ALSO NOT MATCH THOUGH THERE'S
JUST LIKE A COUPLE OF THINGS
WHERE NORMALLY LIKE EVERYTHING
GOES THE WAY EVERYTHING COMES
BACK AND IT'S ALL CLEAN.
>> THIS IS LIKE IT'S NOT IT'S
NOT HAPPENING QUITE CLEAN BUT
ALSO I DO FEEL LIKE IT'S
MEETING THE STANDARDS EVEN SO I
MEAN I THINK IT COULD BE BETTER
BUT IT'S STILL KIND OF MEETING
THAT THRESHOLD TO ME AND THEN
JUST KIND OF THE ONE SIDE NOTE
THAT I REALLY FEEL LIKE THEY'RE
NOT IT'S MEETING THE STANDARDS
BUT COULDN'T EVEN BE BETTER IS
THE THE LIGHTING CHOICE IS FINE
BUT I DON'T KNOW WHY WE'RE
PUTTING, YOU KNOW, HISTORIC
LIGHTS ON THE YOU KNOW, THE
MODERN STORE FRONT PART OF THE
BUILDING.
WE HAVE HISTORIC LIGHTS THAT
ARE KIND OF MATCHING THE
HISTORIC LIGHTS ON THE HISTORIC
PART I FEEL LIKE, YOU KNOW THAT
THAT COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER IF
IF THE APPLICANT WANTS TO TALK
TO STAFF AFTER THAT, YOU KNOW,
IF THIS ALL GETS APPROVED AND
YOU WANT TO MAKE A LIGHTING
CHANGE, I SUPPORT THAT ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT.
BUT YOU I THINK AS PROPOSED IT
DOES MEET THE STANDARDS.
BUT DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS OR
DISCUSSION POINTS ON HOW IT'S
MEETING THE STANDARDS IF YOU OR
DOES EVERYONE THINK IT'S
MEETING OR DOES ANYONE NOT
THINK IT'S MEETING THE
STANDARDS?
LET'S HEAR FROM YOU.
OK, SO YEAH, I'LL JUST SAY I
MEAN THE OPENING AND THE
BARRIER FREE ACCESS AND
EVERYTHING ELSE THAT'S BEING
YOU KNOW, GETTING RID OF THAT
SMALL PLANTER BOX, I DON'T SEE
ANYTHING PROBLEMATIC ABOUT
THAT.
I DON'T THINK IT INTERFERES
WITH HOW ANYONE VISUALLY
INTERACTS WITH THIS WITH THE
BUILDING BEHIND IT.
YEAH.
DORNING HAS THE POTENTIAL TO TO
DOVETAIL NICELY INTO THAT
CORNER AND MAKE IT BETTER AND
ALSO SEEMS LIKE IT HAS THE
POTENTIAL TO COMPLETELY GET IN
THE WAY OF HOW YOU VISUALLY
INTERACT WITH THE BUILDING
BEHIND IT, IN WHICH CASE I
THINK IT WOULD START TO TOUCH
ON APPROPRIATENESS.
>> I JUST DON'T KNOW HOW TO
SPECIFY WHAT A GOOD MORNING.
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO I CAN SEE
THE DANGER OF A BAD ONE BUT I
DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
PRESCRIBE PROTECTION FROM IT I
GUESS IS THE PROBLEM TO HAVE
IT?
>> YEAH, I THINK WHAT THE
ORNING I WOULD I THINK THERE IS
A CLASH THERE BUT ALSO YOU KNOW
WE HAVE A CANVAS AWNING AND
THEN THE EXISTING IS MORE OF A
OVERHANG LIKE IT'S LIKE YOU
KNOW LIKE JUST A FAKE OVERHANG
OF A BUILDING.
IT'S AN EVE, IT'S A FASCIA.
IT'S YOU KNOW IT'S REALLY NOT
AN ORNATE AGREED IT'S ACTING AS
AN AWNING.
>> SO BECAUSE OF THAT I THINK
LIKE I SAID, IT COULD HAVE BEEN
BETTER THERE COULD HAVE BEEN
MORE DISCUSSION MAYBE THAT YOU
KNOW, THE ARCHITECT LOOKED AT
THAT IT DIDN'T LOOK RIGHT
BECAUSE IT WAS TWO DIFFERENT
MATERIALS SO THEY DECIDED TO
SHIFTED.
YOU KNOW, WE JUST HAVE TO GO
WITH WHAT'S PROPOSED AND I
GUESS JUST SAY YOUR PIECE WHICH
YOU DID AND AND DISCUSS WHICH
WE DID AND THEN WE'LL VOTE.
>> SO BUT IT'S A REALLY GOOD
POINT AND ARE THERE ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION POINTS?
IT SOUNDS LIKE WE ARE ALL
AGREEING THAT IT'S MEETING THE
STANDARDS ENOUGH TO NOT BRING
UP ANY POINTS.
>> SO LET'S JUST GO TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
OK, THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANKS, PETE.
OK THANK YOU.
OK SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO HEAD
BACK UP TO WHAT WAS EF FOUR BUT
I SUPPOSE IS NOW EF FIVE AND
IT'S 317 SOUTH DIVISION STREET
AND SO WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
PLEASE CAN WE HAVE THE STAFF
REPORT?
SURE.
ONE MOMENT WHILE I REALIZED THE
POWERPOINT THERE
ALL RIGHT.
317 SOUTH DIVISION STREET IS A
VERY INTERESTING HISTORY.
I'M NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH THE
WHOLE THING BUT IT WAS REALLY
FUN TO WRITE UP SO I JUST SORT
OF KEPT GOING BECAUSE THERE'S
THERE'S A LOT OF NUANCES TO
THIS HOUSE LONG AND SHORT OF IT
IS YOU SEE THIS HOUSE AT THREE
SEVENTEEN SOUTH DIVISION THE
BRICK APARTMENT BUILDING TO THE
LEFT AND THIS PHOTO IS 317 AND
I'M SORRY THREE FIFTEEN SOUTH
DIVISION HISTORICALLY IT WAS
ONE LOT THOSE WERE THOSE TWO
BUILDINGS ARE TODAY AND THERE
WAS ONE BIG HOUSE IN THE MIDDLE
OF IT THAT BIG HOUSE WENT AWAY
SOMETIME AFTER THE TURN OF THE
CENTURY.
IT WAS THERE IN NINETEEN OH
EIGHT BUT IN NINETEEN BUT THEN
IT WENT AWAY AND IN 1914 THIS
HOUSE WAS MOVED TO THE SITE.
THERE WAS ANOTHER HOUSE SIMILAR
SIZE WHERE THE BRICK BUILDING
IS TODAY BUT THAT ONE DIDN'T
LAST AS LONG AS THIS AND GOT
REPLACED THAT HOUSE WAS
OCCUPIED BY MRS LENA RENNIE AND
HER THREE GROWN CHILDREN AND AT
THAT TIME THIS WAS AN EARLIER
HOUSE THAT HAD THE FULL FRONT
PORCH ADDED WITH THE HEAVY
ROUND HALF COLUMNS ON BRICK
BASIS THE PARLOR WINDOW HAS
CHANGED IN A NEW SLIGHTLY
HIGHER HYP ROOF WITH DORMERS ON
THE AND NORTH WAS ADDED SLENDER
BRICK CHIMNEY THAT YOU CAN JUST
BARELY SEE IN THIS PHOTO WAS
PROBABLY ALSO FROM THIS TIME
AND AROUND 1988 THE MAIL SHOP
MOVED IN AND ALTER THE BUILDING
FOR COMMERCIAL USE ADDING THE
HANDICAPPED RAMP THAT YOU CAN
SEE HERE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
CHANGING THE PORCH RAILING AND
STEPS AND ALTERING THE BAY
WINDOW TO A NEW ENTRANCE FOR
THE SHOP IN 2004 THE HGC
APPROVED APPLICATIONS TO
INSTALL A WOOD SIGN AND REPLACE
THE 1914 FRONT DOOR WITH A NEW
FRONT DOOR WHICH IS STILL THERE
TODAY THOUGH I DON'T THINK IT'S
A USABLE DOOR.
THE SITES ON THE EAST SIDE
OF SOUTH DIVISION SOUTH OF EAST
LIBERTY IN NORTH OF EAST
WILLIAM AND THERE'S A LAUNDRY
LIST IN THE STAFF REPORT OF THE
ITEMS THAT THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING FDA APPROVAL FOR.
I'M GOING TO GO THROUGH THEM AS
I GO THROUGH THE PHOTOS AND THE
DRAWINGS BUT LET'S SEE I'M
GOING TO CALL OUT WHAT I SEE IN
THE PHOTOS THAT'S GOING TO BE
CHANGED AND THEN WE'LL GET TO
THE DRAWINGS AND I'LL ADD
ANYTHING THAT I MISSED THERE
FROM THIS PICTURE YOU CAN SEE
PORTRAYAL AND THE RAMP.
>> THEY'RE NOT ORIGINAL.
THOSE ARE GOING AWAY AND
SOMETHING MORE HISTORICALLY
ACCURATE WILL BE INSTALLED FOR
THE PORCH RAILING AND THERE
WILL NOT BE A RAMP IN THAT
LOCATION ANYMORE.
HELLO
SLIDE PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
ALONG THE BASE OF THE HOUSE
THERE IS THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE
.
THERE ARE BASEMENT WINDOWS
UNDER HERE.
YOU CAN SEE A COUPLE OF THEM
OVER HERE.
I'VE GOT ANOTHER SLIDE LATER.
THE HOUSE RIGHT NOW IS WRAPPED
IN ALUMINUM SIDING AND ALL
OF THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN
PREVIOUSLY REPLACED.
THE ORIGINAL FRONT WINDOWS WERE
STILL THERE IN 2011 OR 2012 BUT
UNFORTUNATELY THEY ARE NOT
TODAY THESE WINDOWS ARE STRANGE
LITTLE PIANO WINDOWS THAT DON'T
QUITE ALL MATCH WITH BUT
THEY'RE THEY'RE JUST
INTERESTING HERE ARE THOSE
BASEMENT DOORS THAT I TALKED
ABOUT.
THIS IS THE ONLY ONE THAT'S GOT
ITS ORIGINAL SMASH OR AN OLDER
SMASH.
SOME OF THEM ARE BLOCKED IN
SOME
HAVE BEEN REPLACED.
AN EGRESS WINDOW IS PROPOSED TO
GO IN THIS WINDOW, A BASEMENT
EGRESS WINDOW AND ALSO ONE NEAR
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE WHICH
I'LL SHOW YOU ON THE DRAWINGS.
CAN'T SEE RIGHT NOW ANYWAY
BECAUSE IT'S GOT A RAMP THE WAY
THIS IS THAT SAME SIDE OF THE
HOUSE.
WE'RE A LITTLE BIT BACK FARTHER
NOW LOOKING OUT TOWARDS SOUTH
DIVISION STREET AND THIS IS THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE WE JUST CAME
AROUND FROM THIS WAY THIS WHOLE
WALL IS JUST A PUZZLE.
THE THE BASEMENT WALL IS
DIFFERENT.
IT'S CMU INSTEAD OF BRICK AND
IT HAS THIS STRANGE TO YOU WANT
ELEVEN SIDING AND IT DOESN'T
ALIGN HERE AND THE CORNERS
DON'T QUITE MATCH UP AND IT'S
HARD TO SAY WHAT'S GOING ON ON
THE SALIVATION.
ONE OF THE WORK ITEMS IS TO
REMOVE THE ALUMINUM SIDING AND
PRESUMABLY THE 2011 AS WELL AND
IT'LL BE GREAT TO SEE WHAT'S
UNDERNEATH THERE BECAUSE I
SUSPECT THAT THERE MIGHT HAVE
BEEN A SLEEPING PORCH OR
SOMETHING UP HERE OR MAYBE THIS
WHOLE WALL WAS JUST REPLACED AT
ONE POINT FOR SOME REASON
THERE'S A LITTLE BACK STOOP
HERE TO A NOT ORIGINAL BACK
DOOR THAT WAS PROBABLY WHENEVER
THIS BACK ELEVATION WAS CHANGE.
THERE'S AN AC UNIT BACK HERE I
BELIEVE THIS IS THIS THIS WHAT
LOOKS LIKE A DRIVEWAY IS
ACTUALLY IT'S A DRIVEWAY BUT IT
ALSO IS A AS A PEDESTRIAN
EASEMENT THREE FEET OF THE
PROPERTY CLOSE TO THE BRICK
BUILDING AND THREE FEET NEXT TO
THE MAILSHOT BUILDING ARE IT'S
EASEMENT FOR BOTH BUILDINGS SO
PEDESTRIANS CAN GET TO THE
BACK.
I'LL SHOW YOU A PICTURE WHERE
THEY GO TO IN A MINUTE.
NOW WE'RE WALKING UP THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THERE IS A NEW DOOR THAT'S BEEN
CUT IN.
IT REALLY LOOKS OUT OF PLACE.
PART OF THE APPLICATION SAYS
THAT THEY'D LIKE TO REMOVE THIS
AND FILL IT WITH SIDING BUT
BECAUSE IT'S PRESUMED TO BE NOT
ORIGINAL, AN ORIGINAL DOOR
WOULD PROBABLY WOULD TYPICALLY
BE LOCATED HERE BUT IT WOULD BE
AT GRADE CUT INTO THE BASEMENT
FOUNDATION TO ACCOMMODATE ON
BASEMENT STAIRS GOING DOWN LIKE
A LITTLE LANDING BY THE BACK
DOOR.
BUT THE APPLICANT SAYS IN THE
APPLICATION THAT IF THEY PULL
OFF ALL THE SIDING AND POSSIBLY
THE THE THE INTERIOR FINISHES
AND FIND THAT THIS IS AN
ORIGINAL OPENING THAT THEY'LL
LEAVE A DOOR THERE WITH
PROBABLY WITHOUT, YOU KNOW, ANY
FUNCTION IT WOULD AT LEAST BE
IN ITS HISTORIC LOCATION.
THIS WINDOW IS NEAR THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND IS PROPOSED TO
HAVE AN EGRESS WELL AS WELL IT
MATCHES THE ONE ON THE OTHER
SIDE.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS ON
THIS COMMISSION APPLICATION
BECAUSE STAFF CAN'T APPROVE
WELL THIS CLOSE TO THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE HERE IS THE FRONT
DOOR THAT WAS REPLACED IN THE
EARLY 2000S, 2000 FOR THERE'S
NOTHING PARTICULARLY SPECIAL
ABOUT THEY DID USE A WOOD DOOR
WHICH WAS NICE BUT NOTHING
SPECIAL.
THIS IS SORT OF A SIDEWAYS
PICTURE.
THIS DOOR WAS ADDED IN AND IT
BECAME THE MAIL SHOP AND IT HAS
SIDE LIGHTS AND SOME SORT
OF PANELS UP HERE ABOVE THE
APPLICATION PROPOSES TO REMOVE
ALL OF THIS BECAUSE IT WAS ALL
NOT ORIGINAL AND COPY BAY
WINDOW THAT CAN BE SEEN IN
EARLIER PHOTOS OF THE HOUSE TO
BRING IT BACK TO SOMETHING
CLOSER TO ITS ORIGINAL
APPEARANCE.
IT'S JUST ONE LARGE WINDOW WITH
TWO SMALLER WINDOWS FLANKING.
>> THIS IS A PHOTO TO SHOW HOW
BIG THIS HOUSE ON THE OTHER
SIDE IS.
SO THIS IS THE MAIL SHOP'S
ENTIRE PARKING LOT BACK HERE
AND THIS GOES TO THE BACK LOT
LINE.
IT SHOULD ALSO BE NOTED THAT
THESE HOUSES THOMPSON ALL UP
AND DOWN THE BLOCK, THEY HAVE
EXTREMELY SHALLOW LOTS AND
THEY'RE ALSO BUILT TO WITHIN
TEN FEET OF THE LINE.
THERE ARE NO SPACIOUS LUXURIOUS
BACKYARDS HERE AND LET'S SEE
OH, HERE'S MY PHOTO LOOKING THE
OTHER WAY THIS IS THE BRICK
APARTMENT BUILDING RIGHT HERE
BEHIND MISSIONER ROCHLIN IS A
GATE AND IF YOU STUCK YOUR HEAD
IN THERE YOU WOULD SEE ABOUT
FIFTEEN TRASH AND RECYCLING
CARTS AND THOSE GET WHEELED OUT
DOWN THE PEDESTRIAN EASEMENT
PRESUMABLY SAT ON THE CURB
WHATEVER IT IS THAT'S PICKED UP
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO PUT AN
ADDITION BEHIND THE HOUSE AND
IT WOULD BE THREE STORIES TALL
AND WOULD HAVE A ONE STORY
HYPHEN.
IT'S BY DEFINITION IT MIGHT NOT
BE TRULY A HYPHEN BECAUSE IT'S
A LITTLE BIT WIDE BUT IT HAS TO
BE TEN FEET WIDE IN ORDER TO
MEET BUILDING CODE TO AND
ZONING CODE TO MAKE THIS A
BONAFIDE EDITION.
I'M NOT GOING TO GO INTO THE
DETAILS BUT IF YOU EVER WANT TO
LEARN ABOUT IT, GIVE ME A CALL
.
BUT IT'S THERE FOR A REASON.
THIS THREE STORY ADDITION HAS
ALSO HAS A BASEMENT AND ALL
FOUR LEVELS ARE OCCUPIED WOULD
BE OCCUPIED AND YOU CAN SEE THE
EGRESS WELLS HERE TOO ON THE
NEW ADDITION TO HERE ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE AND TO
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
IN ADDITION ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE THERE'S A WHOLE
ROW OF RECYCLING CARTS THERE IN
AN ENCLOSURE IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
WOOD.
YOU'LL SEE IT IN A COUPLE
OF MINUTES.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DETAILS
GIVEN BUT I DO APPRECIATE THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE A CORRAL
TO GO HOME TO AT NIGHT BECAUSE
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT CAN GET
OUT OF HAND PRETTY EASILY.
IT'LL LOOK PRETTY BAD.
LOWER LEVEL DEMOLITION PLAN.
THERE'S A FIRST FLOOR ALSO A
DEMO PLAN.
THIS GOES AWAY.
A MORE APPROPRIATE DOOR GETS
PUT THERE THE ONE THAT SERVES
OK BUT THEY'D LIKE A NEW DOOR
THIS DOOR IN THE BACK OF THE
WAY IN THE STORE ON THE SIDE
AND THE LITTLE STAIRS GO AWAY.
THE EXISTING SECOND FLOOR PLAN
A COUPLE OF THESE WINDOWS
YOU'LL SEE ON THE ELEVATIONS
ARE PROPOSED TO BECOME EGRESS
WINDOWS SINCE ALL OF THE
WINDOWS HAVE BEEN PREVIOUSLY
REPLACED, STAFF REALLY DOESN'T
HAVE ANY ISSUES WITH REPLACING
THE MODERN DOUBLE HONGS WITH A
MODERN CASEMENT THEY WOULD ALL
HAVE A FALSE MOUNTAIN ACROSS
THE MIDDLE TO MAKE THEM LOOK
LIKE A ONE OVER ONE SASH BUT
THEY'LL BE ABLE TO OPEN OUT
MEET THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
AMOUNT OF SPACE YOU NEED TO GET
A BODY OUT A WINDOW IN AN
EMERGENCY EXISTING ROOF PLAN.
OK, FIRST WE'RE GOING THROUGH
THE EXISTING ELEVATIONS.
THIS IS THE FRONT THIS IS THE
SIDE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT THAT
STUFF THAT WE'RE GETTING RID
OF .
THIS IS THE BACK
THIS IS THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE.
>> OK, HERE IS THE PROPOSED YOU
CAN SEE THE NEW ADDITIONS IN
THE BACKGROUND.
IT IT'S GOING TO READ BASICALLY
AS ANOTHER BUILDING BEHIND THIS
HOUSE CONNECTED WITH THE ONE
STOREY HYPHEN ROOM THAT TOUCHES
BOTH OF THEM.
>> WE HAVE A NEW PORCH RAILING
HERE.
>> THIRTY SIX INCHES TALL, NEW
NOT RESTORED BUT REPLICA BAY
WINDOW AND A NEW FRONT DOOR.
THERE ARE THE EGRESS WINDOWS
HERE NEAR THE FRONT THAT HAVE
SOME SCREENING NEW FENCE AND
LANDSCAPING TO SCREEN THE NEW
BASEMENT WINDOWS WHICH I THINK
IS AN APPROPRIATE WAY TO
APPROACH THIS NEW ALUMINUM CLAD
WINDOWS WOULD MATCH.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY REPLACING ALL
OF THE EXISTING VINYL WINDOWS
WITH NEW ALUMINUM CLAD SO THE
HOUSE WILL BE CONSISTENT AND
REMOVING THAT ALUMINUM SIDING
AND PAINTING AND REPAIRING
WHAT'S UNDERNEATH.
SO ON THE SOUTH ELEVATION LET'S
SEE THIS IS NOT THE DRIVEWAY
SIDE.
HERE'S OUR NEW EGRESS WINDOW.
HERE'S OUR GLASS PRETTIED UP
PORCH AND THE NEW EDITION, THE
ONE STOREY TYPHON HAS VERTICAL
SIDING TO DISTINGUISH IT BUT
IT'S SET IN FAR ENOUGH THAT YOU
SHOULDN'T BE ABLE TO SEE THAT
REALLY FROM ANYWHERE UNLESS
YOU'RE WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE
TOWARD THE BACK.
THE ROOF OF THE ADDITION IS
NEARLY FLAT.
IT'S VERY SLIGHTLY PITCHED JUST
TO SHED WATER AND IT IS ABOUT
FOUR INCHES SHORTER THAN THE
PEAK OF THE THE THE HIP ROOF
WINDOWS ARE ALL SUPER
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
ONE OVER ONE THERE'S HARDY
SIDING.
THIS IS THE BACK THE REAR
ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE ALONG
THE DRIVEWAY THIS THIS
STRUCTURE IS ABOUT AS LOW KEY
AS YOU CAN MAKE SOMETHING TO TO
PUT BEHIND ANOTHER HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THE ATTACHMENT HERE
ONE APARTMENT WILL ENTER
THROUGH THE FRONT PORCH.
HERE'S APARTMENT B WHICH IS
UPSTAIRS OR DOWNSTAIRS.
>> APARTMENT C IS ONE OF THE
TWO IN THE NEW ADDITION AND
THEN THERE'S ONE OTHER DOOR ON
THE FACADE THAT FACES THE
STREET ON THE NEW EDITION.
LOTS OF BEDROOMS.
HERE'S AN INTERESTING FLOOR
PLAN.
THIS IS THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN.
SO YOU CAN SEE HERE WE'VE GOT
ALL THE TRASH CARTS OVER HERE.
THIS IS A DECK WITH STAIRS SO
THERE'S REALLY NOT GOING TO BE
PARKING HERE.
THERE IS ROOM FOR HERE.
THEY'VE MARKED OFF ONE PARKING
SPACE NINE BY EIGHTEEN.
>> IT'S BEHIND THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S A LEGAL
PARKING SPACE.
THIS WILL BE CONCRETE GOING
TOWARD THE BACK OR ON THE SIDE
OF THE HOUSE WITH PLANTING
STRIP HERE AND THEN WE'VE GOT
PLANTING ALL AROUND ON THE
OTHER SIDE YOU CAN SEE THE TWO
DIFFERENT ENTRY WAYS INTO
TWO
DIFFERENT APARTMENTS SECOND
FLOOR PLAN AND THE THIRD FLOOR
.
>> SO HERE'S THE EXISTING PHOTO
SO YOU CAN GET A SENSE FROM THE
APPLICANT YOU CAN GET A SENSE
OF HOW FAR APART THESE
BUILDINGS ARE AND HERE'S A
RENDERING OF WHAT THE ADDITIONS
WOULD LOOK LIKE.
>> I DO APPRECIATE THE CARETAKE
AND IN CHOOSING A LIGHTER COLOR
FOR THE FRONT BUILDING TO MAKE
IT STAND OUT AND THE DARKER
COLOR BEHIND TO MAKE IT RECEDE
,THERE WAS A FEW THINGS LIKE
SKIRTING IT DIDN'T REALLY TALK
ABOUT IT ON THE APPLICATION BUT
THIS LOOKS LIKE A NEW
APPROPRIATE SKIRTING.
WE'VE GOT OUR CORRAL FOR IT.
I'M SURE THIS IS ACTUALLY THE
WOOD FENCE THAT WILL ALSO HIDE
THE CORRAL FOR THE THE CANS AND
HERE'S THE FENCE FOR THAT OTHER
EGRESS WINDOW.
THERE ARE LIGHTS ALONG THE SIDE
HERE WHICH AREN'T TYPICAL ON A
HOUSE LIKE THIS.
BUT THIS IS NOT A TYPICAL
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD THE
WAY SOME OF THE OTHER HISTORIC
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL GO THROUGH THE STUDENTS
GUIDELINES AND THEN CIRCLE BACK
AROUND WITH MY STAFF REPORT SO
TWO, FIVE, NINE AND TEN HAVE
ALL BEEN READ TO YOU ALREADY
FROM THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROY HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE FOR
ADDITIONS THEY RECOMMEND
CONSTRUCTING A NEW ADDITIONS
THAT THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE
LOSS OF HISTORIC MATERIALS SO
THAT CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES ARE NOT OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE
THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR EDITION
AT THE REAR OR ON AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING AND LIMITING
ITS SIZE AND SCALE RELATIONSHIP
TO THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
ALSO DESIGNING NEW EDITIONS IN
A MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR WHAT
IS HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW NOT
RECOMMENDED IS DESIGNING A NEW
ADDITION.
SO THE SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATION TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ARE OUT OF PROPORTION,
THUS DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO LOCATE A
REQUIRED EDITION ON THE LIST
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION
KEEPING UP SUBORDINATE AND
VOLUME TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
>> IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE A NEW EDITION ON A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING OR
INCONSPICUOUS ELEVATION AND
LIMITING THE SIZE AND SCALE AND
TO DESIGN THE EDITION SO
COMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF MACING
MATERIALS RELATIONSHIP
OF SOLIDS TO VOID'S AND
PROPORTION OF OPENINGS.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
A NEW ADDITION IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES IT CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW.
ALL RIGHT.
I HAVE A FEW MORE COMMENTS FOR
YOU.
>> SO NORMALLY WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT RESIDENTIAL HOUSES AND
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH
THIS WAS IS WE WE INVOKE THE 50
PERCENT RULE THAT'S IN THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
IT'S NOT A RULE.
IT'S A GUIDELINE.
BUT THAT SAYS THAT THE NEITHER
THE FOOTPRINT NOR THE ADDITIONS
FLOOR AREA SHOULD BE MORE THAN
50 PERCENT OF THAT OF THE
ORIGINAL HOUSE.
SO WITH THAT THE THE THE THE
FOOTPRINT INCREASE IN THIS
BUILDING IS 107 PERCENT AND THE
FLOOR AREA IS AN INCREASE
OF ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY EIGHT
PERCENT.
SO THE REASON THIS IS DIFFERENT
THOUGH IS THAT IT'S DOWNTOWN,
IT'S IN THE DENHA IT'S FLANKED
BY VERY LARGE BUILDINGS ON BOTH
SIDES.
IT HAS IT IS A SMALL BACKYARD.
NOBODY ELSE REALLY DOES AND
IT'S IMPORTANT TO KEEP IT IN IN
CONTEXT THAT WE'RE LOOKING SITE
SPECIFICALLY RATHER THAN
THINKING ABOUT THIS LIKE YOU
WOULD ABOUT THE OLD FOURTH WARD
OR THE OLD WEST SIDE OR THE
BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT, YOU
REALLY HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
SETTING AND TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION.
THE VOLUME OF THE ADDITIONS IS
PUSHING THE SIZE LIMITS
COMPARED TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING THEY DID MANAGE TO
MAKE IT LOWER WHICH I
APPRECIATE BUT THE DESIGN
MATERIALS ARE LOW KEY AND
COMPATIBLE IN THE WORK PROPOSED
FOR THE HISTORIC HOUSE IS
APPROPRIATE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MISS
THATCHER WILL NOW MOVE ON TO
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT MR.
KAPLAN.
SURE.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'D AGREE
WITH ME, DAVID.
ONE OF THE THINGS WHEN I'M
SEEING THE GRAPHICS HERE OR THE
PHOTOGRAPHS IT FEELS TO ME LIKE
WHEN WE WERE STANDING BEHIND
THIS BUILDING THAT THE THE
NEIGHBORING BUILDINGS ON BOTH
SIDES FELT A LOT CLOSER AND I
FELT LIKE THE PARKING LOT
BEHIND THE BUILDING WAS MUCH
MORE ENCLOSED AND ENCAPSULATED.
I ONLY SAY THAT BECAUSE TO TO
SORT OF REINFORCE WHAT JILL
SAID IN THE STAFF REPORT I FEEL
LIKE WHERE THIS EDITION GOES
BEHIND THE BUILDING HOW YOU CAN
SEE THE MASSING OF THE BUILDING
RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO IT.
I DON'T THINK EVEN THOUGH IT'S
GOING ABOVE THE RESIDENTIAL
GUIDELINE FOR ADDITIONS, I
DON'T THINK IT POSES THE RISK
OF DWARFING OR OVER COMPETING
WITH IT WITH THE THE MAIN HOUSE
THAT'S BEING RESTORED.
I DIDN'T GET THE SENSE THERE
WAS A THREAT OF THAT ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE IT'S SO ENCLOSED BY
EVERYTHING.
YEAH, THE I MEAN THIS THIS IS
REALLY A GOOD PHOTO HERE JUST
TO GET A FEEL FOR THE CONTEXT
WHERE YOU HAVE THE NEIGHBORING
BUILDINGS ARE PRETTY MUCH RIGHT
IN LINE MORE OR LESS WITH WITH
WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED.
SO THAT IS OBVIOUSLY REALLY
IMPORTANT TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
THAT WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED IS
THREE STORIES THAT THIS IS
OBVIOUSLY A TWO STORY ADDITION
WITH THE ONE STORY THAT YOU CAN
SEE LIKE A LITTLE BIT POKING
OUT OF THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
IT LOOKS LIKE THEY HAVE AN
ADDITION WHERE THEY THEY BUMPED
UP THE FRONT OF THEIR HOUSE
THAT LOOKS LIKE A KIND OF A
HALF STOREY OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
SO YOU COULD SAY THAT THAT'S
YOU KNOW, PUSHING THREE STORIES
THERE AND YEAH, I THINK THAT
THE WHAT WE'VE HEARD SO FAR I
THINK EVERYONE KIND OF HAS A
FEEL FOR THE FOR THE SITE
CONTEXT.
>> I THINK THE THE OTHER THINGS
THAT WERE DISCUSSED ON SITE WAS
THAT THE ZONING IS SUCH THAT
THIS PROPERTY WERE NOT IN THIS
STARK DISTRICT.
YOU COULD BUILD A VERY TALL
BUILDING RIGHT UP TO THE EDGES
OF THE OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
SO THAT'S ALSO SOMETHING TO
NOTE AND ALSO THE SAME IS TRUE
FOR FOR THE OTHER BUILDINGS ON
THE ON THE ON THE EAST, YOU
KNOW, BUILDINGS THAT YOU SEE
LIKE THAT HOUSE RIGHT THERE,
THOSE BUILDINGS TO THE EAST
COULD ALSO BE BUILT RIGHT TO
THE PROPERTY LINE AT LEAST
THAT'S MY UNDERSTANDING.
OK, SO GREAT.
NOW LET'S MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT REPORTS SO THE
APPLICANT PLEASE STEP TO THE
PODIUM, STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD FOR A
SECOND TIME AND YOU'VE GOT UP
TO FIVE MINUTES FOR YOUR
PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS RYAN.
I LIVE AT SIX ONE FIVE WEST
JEFFERSON IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
.
AS YOU KNOW I LIVE IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD FOR ABOUT EIGHT
YEARS SO I'M VERY FAMILIAR WITH
THE DOWNTOWN AREA JUST MORE
RECENTLY MOVED TO THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
I'M THE NEW OWNER OF THREE ONE
SEVEN CELL DIVISION STREET
RIGHT IN THE HEART OF DOWNTOWN
.
OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS
I'VE RESTORED SEVERAL HOMES
MAINLY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
CAREY TOWN DISTRICT.
THEY'VE BEEN FAIRLY LARGE
RENOVATIONS AND I THINK IT'S
BECOME A LABOR OF LOVE FOR ME
TO RESTORE SOME OF THE MOST
NEGLECTED HOUSES IN VERY
IMPORTANT NEIGHBORHOODS.
I LIVE IN A HISTORIC DISTRICT
MYSELF.
I CARE DEEPLY ABOUT ALL OF OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND THIS IS
ABSOLUTELY NO DIFFERENT.
I THINK THE ONE DISTINCTION
HERE AS I'VE NEVER WORKED IN A
ONE ZONE BEFORE THIS WHEN YOU
WHEN YOU SIT ON THE PORCH
OF THIS PROPERTY YOU VERY MUCH
FEEL LIKE YOU'RE IN THE HEART
OF DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
YOU YOU FEEL THE LIVELINESS
OF OF DOWNTOWN AND FOR ME
TAKING BUILDINGS THAT HAVE BEEN
NEGLECTED AND RESTORING THEM IS
REALLY A PASSION OF MINE AND
SADLY THIS BUILDING HAS BEEN
NEGLECTED.
IT HAS BEEN THE MALE SHOP FOR
FORTY ONE YEARS AND WE'RE
EXCITED TO TURN THIS BUILDING
INTO A HOME.
MY GOAL IS FAIRLY SIMPLE.
IT'S TO BRING IT BACK TO BE A
HOME, RESTORE THE FEATURES THAT
MAKE IT SPECIAL IN TURN IT TO
BE A CONTRIBUTING PART OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE REACH OUT TO THE BATES
LIBRARY, GOT AN ORIGINAL PHOTO,
WORKED VERY CLOSELY WITH STAFF
TO KIND OF UNDERSTAND THE FRONT
FACADE OF THE BUILDING.
IT WAS A BLURRY PHOTO BUT WE
GOT A SENSE OF THE ORIGINAL
DOOR OPENING AND THE THREE
WINDOWS IN FRONT.
SO WE'RE EXCITED ABOUT
REPLACING THAT.
I HAVE A FRONT PORCH IN MY
HOUSE.
I'VE ALWAYS WANTED OUTDOOR
SPACE.
I THINK IT'S JUST SO VALUABLE
IN OUR DOWNTOWN AREA AND
REGARDS THE ADDITION.
I KNOW THERE'S A LOT TO BE
DISCUSSED THERE BUT I WANT YOU
TO KNOW THE DESIGN WAS VERY
INTENTIONAL.
WE WORKED VERY CLOSELY WITH
STAFF.
THANK YOU GUYS VERY MUCH FOR
ALL OF YOUR FEEDBACK TO GET IT
TO THIS POINT WE DISCUSSED
DIFFERENT ROOF ROOF ELEVATIONS
AND SHAPES ULTIMATELY LANDED ON
A FLAT ROOF DESIGN AS WE FELT
LIKE IT WAS MORE SUBTLE.
WE'VE BEEN CONSISTENT
CONSISTENTLY BALANCING DON'T
COMPATIBILITY BUT
DISTINGUISHMENT BETWEEN THE NEW
STRUCTURE AND THE OLD AND BEING
VERY MINDFUL OF THE BUILDINGS
AROUND THREE ONE SEVEN
SUBDIVISION AND AS STAFF
MENTIONED THE BUILDINGS AROUND
THREE ONE SEVEN ARE VERY DEEP.
THEY'RE VERY TALL.
IT IS JUST
AN INCREDIBLY UNIQUE
SIGHT.
I'VE NEVER OPERATED IN A SITE
LIKE THIS BEFORE AGAIN
TRADITIONALLY MY PROJECTS HAVE
BEEN AND THEY ARE FORESE OLD
FOURTH WARD DISTRICT.
I ALSO WANT TO NOTE THAT MANY
NEIGHBORS COMMUNITY MEMBERS
HAVE WRITTEN IN LETTERS
OF SUPPORT.
I WANT TO THANK THEM FOR THAT.
IT MEANS A LOT TO ME BECAUSE IT
JUST REINFORCES THE IMPORTANCE
OF NOT ONLY THIS PROJECT BUT
JUST OF OUR HISTORIC DISTRICTS
ITSELF.
THE LAST THING I'LL SAY IS I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO SHARE
THAT LIKE MY INTENTIONS THIS IS
NOT JUST A PURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT FOR ME.
THIS IS A PRESERVATION PROJECT
.
I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
OPPORTUNITY TO THOUGHTFULLY ADD
HOUSING TO OUR DOWNTOWN CORE.
I WANT TO HONOR THE PAST THAT
OF THIS BUILDING AND WHAT
EXISTED PREVIOUS TO WHAT IT IS
TODAY AND GIVE IT A VERY
MEANINGFUL FUTURE.
I HOPE YOU'LL SUPPORT THIS
PROJECT.
I VERY MUCH APPRECIATE YOUR
TIME AND CONSIDERATION AND I
HOPE THIS BUILDING CAN STAND
PROUD IN OUR DOWNTOWN FOR THE
NEXT HUNDRED YEARS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANKS RYAN.
GREAT.
OK SO NOW WE'LL HAVE SOME
COMMISSIONER QUESTIONS.
SO ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONERS
THAT HAVE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
OK, NO QUESTIONS AT THE MOMENT
SO IN THAT CASE WE WILL MOVE ON
TO THE PUBLIC HEARING.
SO THIS IS A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
317 S DIVISION STREET AND IT
LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE SOME PEOPLE
ON THE PODIUM RIGHT NOW.
SO PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M CHRIS CROCKET.
I'M PRESIDENT OF THE OLD FOURTH
WARD ASSOCIATION AND THIS IS
JEFF CROCKET WHO'S A
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER.
WE'VE WORKED WITH RYAN ON OTHER
PROJECTS SPECIFICALLY ANAN'S
STREET PROJECT THAT WAS A
BUILDING THAT WAS ALMOST
FALLING INTO RUIN THROUGH
NEGLECT AND WE'RE HERE TONIGHT
TO SUPPORT THIS PROJECT BY
RYAN.
WE THINK HE DOES EXCELLENT WORK
.
>> SO RYAN ALSO DID A BEAUTIFUL
JOB IN RESTORING FIVE LOVING
YOU STAYING AT HOME THAT HAD
BEEN NEGLECTED FOR MANY YEARS
AND WAS IN DANGER OF DEMOLITION
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT INCLUDED
IN THAT PROJECT WAS AN ADDITION
THAT ADDED OCCUPANCY IN A WAY
THAT RESPECTED THE HISTORIC
CONTEXT OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
JUST AS WHAT HE'S DONE HERE.
RYAN REACHED OUT TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD FOR INPUT AND
SUPPORT WHICH HE RECEIVED.
HE TOOK ALL THE RIGHT STEPS AND
WE HAVE COMPLETE CONFIDENCE
THAT RYAN WILL DELIVER ON THE
PLANS PRESENTED TO YOU WHICH
ARE SENSITIVE TO THE CONTEXT
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
PLEASE SUPPORT HIS PLAN.
WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK ALL
OF YOU WHO SERVE ON THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
FOR YOUR SERVICE TO THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY AND WELCOME JENNA AND
SARAH TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
WE HAVE LEARNED THROUGH
EXPERIENCE THAT THE DC AND IN
PARTICULAR COORDINATOR JILL
THATCHER HAVE PLAYED A VITAL
ROLE IN PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO
THE OWNERS OF HISTORIC
PROPERTIES ENABLING THEM TO
MAINTAIN AND IMPROVE THEIR
PROPERTIES IN A MANNER THAT
RESPECTS THE HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE TO OUR COMMUNITY
AND THAT HAS BEEN OUR
EXPERIENCE THROUGH MULTIPLE
RESTORATION PROJECTS.
UNFORTUNATELY THERE ARE THOSE
IN ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ELIMINATE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS SO THAT
HISTORIC HOMES CAN BE TORN DOWN
TO INCREASE DENSITY BY BUILDING
MULTIPLEX'S.
AS RYAN'S PROJECT DEMONSTRATED,
THERE IS A WAY TO INCREASE
DENSITY IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS
BY ADDING SENSIBLE ADDITIONS TO
THE REAR OF CONTRIBUTE
STRUCTURES CONSISTENT WITH THE
CONTEXT OF THE HISTORIC
NEIGHBORHOOD.
FURTHERMORE, DENSITY HAS BEEN
ADDED BY REDESIGNING INTERIORS
WHICH ARE NOT SUBJECT TO
HISTORIC DISTRICT ORDINANCE
GUIDELINES.
WE ARE CONCERNED THAT THE
SECOND DRAFT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
REPLACES A STATEMENT IN SUPPORT
OF STATISTICS WITH THE
FOLLOWING STATEMENT.
THE PLAN TAKES NO POSITION ON
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
THE ORIGINAL STATEMENT WAS
HISTORIC DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
WILL BE MAINTAINED AND
DEVELOPMENT WILL CONTINUE TO
ADHERE TO THE EXISTING
STANDARDS AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION REFERENCE
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION REMOVED FROM THE
CLOCK CLEARLY TAKING NO
POSITION AS ANOTHER WAY OF THE
STURE DISAPPROVING HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
WE ENCOURAGE ALL ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS WHO ISTORE WHO
SUPPORT HISTORIC PRESERVATION
TO WRITE TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ASKING THEM TO
RESTORE THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE.
THANKS ONCE AGAIN FOR YOUR
SERVICE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ANYONE ELSE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT.
WE DO HAVE ONE.
DAVID LEWIS IS THE PROJECT
KRAKATAU I GIVE HIM I'M
GUESSING HE'S NOT GOING TO BE
DAVID, YOU THERE?
>> YES, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
>> YES.
I APOLOGIZE IF YOU CAN'T SEE US
WE'RE HAVING A ZOOM CAMERA
TROUBLES.
>> OK, MY NAME IS DAVID LEWIS.
I AM THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROJECT LEWIS GREEN SCREEN
ARCHITECTS 440 SOUTH MAIN
STREET ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN FOUR
EIGHT ONE FOUR.
I JUST WANT TO REITERATE THAT,
YOU KNOW, I'VE REALLY PRESS
WITH YOU KNOW, THE PROCESS THAT
THAT RYAN'S LED THIS JOB
THROUGH.
YOU KNOW, WE WE EXPLORED A LOT
OF DIFFERENT IDEAS.
WE HAD SEVERAL MEETINGS WITH
JILL MARIJANA AND I THINK YOU
KNOW, WHERE WE'VE LANDED IS
JUST A GREAT KIND OF WIN-WIN AS
FAR AS YOU KNOW, RESTORING A
NICE OLD BUILDING THAT'S IN,
YOU KNOW, TREMENDOUS NEED FOR
SOME TLC AND MAXIMIZING
DESPERATELY NEEDED HOUSING
DOWNTOWN.
SO I I REALLY FEEL LIKE THIS IS
YOU KNOW, WE'VE LANDED ON A
GREAT SPOT THAT'S REALLY IT'S
GOING TO IMPROVE THE PROPERTY,
IMPROVE BUILDING AND IMPROVE
DOWNTOWN AS A WHOLE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE NO ONE
ELSE ONLINE.
>> VERY GOOD.
OK, SO NOW THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS ITEM IS CLOSE AND
WE'LL GO ON TO THE MOTION.
>> IS THERE A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS ITEM OR I'D BE HAPPY TO.
>> OK, WE'VE GOT SOMEONE ELSE
GOOD FOR YOU.
YES, ONE OF THEM YES.
ONE OF THE ROOKIES BY BY ALL
MEANS COMMISSIONER NESBITT, I
MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE
A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 317 SOUTH
DIVISION STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE EAST WILLIAM
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO RESTORE
THE HISTORIC HOUSE AND EIGHTY
TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
NINETY EIGHT SQUARE FOOT REAR
EDITION AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE AND ADDITIONS AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL EDITIONS.
>> SECOND OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER NESBITT AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER KAPLAN
.
OK SO THIS IS QUITE A LARGE
APPLICATION JUST CONTENT WISE I
SHOULD SAY IT IS ALSO A LARGE
ADDITION BUT SO THERE'S A LOT
TO DISCUSS AND SO YOU KNOW, I
THINK THAT WE'LL TRY TO GET UP
HERE BUT JUST THE I MEAN
OBVIOUSLY THE THE BIGGEST KIND
OF QUESTION IS JUST THE THE
SIZE OF THE ADDITION.
I THINK THAT WE'VE WE HEARD A
LOT FROM THE STAFF REPORT AND
FROM THE APPLICANT AND THEN
ALSO FROM THERE'S I DON'T KNOW
HOW MANY LETTERS HERE SEVERAL
LET'S SAY AND THE PUBLIC
COMMENT YOU KNOW, WE'VE HEARD A
LOT OF SUPPORT FOR THIS PROJECT
.
>> SO YOU KNOW, I'M SURE YOU
KNOW THE DESIGN PHASE PROBABLY
HAD, YOU KNOW, SOMETHING OR AT
LEAST IN SOMEONE'S MIND, YOU
KNOW, LET'S BUILD SOMETHING AS
BIG AS WE CAN RIGHT BEHIND
HERE.
I THINK WHAT WE WHAT IS WHAT
WAS ENDED UP WITH IS SOMETHING
THAT IS NOT LOOMING OVER, YOU
KNOW, THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
>> SO WHETHER IT'S TOO BIG A
QUESTION MAYBE BUT IT IT
DOESN'T APPEAR TO BE YOU KNOW,
WE'VE SEEN ADDITIONS PROPOSED
THAT JUST FROM THE DRAWINGS AND
RENDERINGS YOU JUST REALLY HAVE
THAT SENSE OF FEELING OF THIS
THING IS REALLY LOOMING OVER
THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
BUT I PERSONALLY DON'T SEE THAT
IN THIS CASE.
>> I'M WONDERING IF ANYONE IS
KIND OF FEELING THAT THIS
ADDITION IS JUST TOO BIG FOR
THIS SITE.
>> OK, SO SO THERE'S THAT THE
THE OTHER KIND OF I GUESS IF
WE'RE JUST TALKING STANDARDS
HERE THE OTHER KIND
OF QUESTIONABLE NEXT BIGGEST
THING IS THE EGRESS WINDOWS.
THE EGRESS WINDOWS ARE
TYPICALLY I MEAN WE LIKE THEM
TO BE AS FAR BACK AS POSSIBLE
FROM THE FROM THE RIGHT AWAY
FROM THE SIDEWALK.
OBVIOUSLY THESE THERE'S TWO
THAT ARE CLOSE TO THE SIDEWALK
AND WE'VE HEARD WHY THEY HAVE
TO BE THERE FOR THE PROPOSAL
BUT KNOW STILL THE STANDARDS
ARE THE STANDARDS.
AND SO I'M WONDERING YOU KNOW,
AGAIN SAME THING IS ANYONE
FEELING LIKE THE THE EGRESS
WINDOWS ARE APPROPRIATE THERE?
>> THEY SHOULDN'T BE THERE OR
JUST HAVE A DISCUSSION AND
ANYTHING YOU WANT TO SAY ABOUT
THE EGRESS WINDOWS?
NO.
OK, I THINK THAT THE YEAH THE I
THINK THE CONTEXT MATTERS.
YOU KNOW, THE FENCE AND
PLANTING WILL HOPEFULLY HELP
MITIGATE SOME OF THE EFFECTS
OF HAVING THOSE EGRESS WINDOWS
SO CLOSE TO THE SIDEWALK
.
>> OK, I MEAN I THINK THIRD ON
THE LIST MAYBE IS THE LIGHTS
THAT ARE GOING TO BE ON THE
NORTH ELEVATION.
>> I'M GUESSING IF NO ONE HAD
COMMENT ON THE ADDITION OR THE
EGRESS WINDOWS, THE LIGHTS ARE
GOING TO BE OK.
>> BUT I JUST WANT TO BRING IT
UP AS A POSSIBLE POINT
OF CONTENTION.
>> I THINK WE PROBABLY ALL
UNDERSTAND WHY THEY SHOULD BE
THERE.
BUT DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS ABOUT THE LIGHTING?
>> OK, VERY GOOD AND YOU KNOW
I'LL JUST OPEN IT UP TO JUST
ANY ANY COMMENTS ABOUT
ANYTHING.
>> DOES ANYONE WANT TO SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT THIS PROJECT?
GENERAL COMMENT.
OK, YEAH I THINK THERE'S
THERE'S JUST A LOT IN HERE.
THE PROJECT REALLY PACKS A LOT
INTO THIS.
I FEEL LIKE IF WE WANTED TO WE
COULD ALL DISCUSS A LOT ABOUT
THIS PROJECT BECAUSE IT IS SO
INTERESTING AND SO UNIQUE TO IT
TO WHAT WE'RE USED TO LOOKING
AT AND I THINK STAFF, YOU KNOW,
REALLY DID A GREAT JOB KIND
OF PARSING OUT WHAT'S WHAT'S
IMPORTANT HERE AND AND AND YOU
KNOW, WHERE WHERE IS IT?
>> OK, WELL, YOU KNOW, WHERE
ARE THE STANDARDS WORKING AND
WHERE ARE THE STANDARDS REALLY
NOT NOT REALLY APPLICABLE
BECAUSE OF THE CONTEXT AND THE
SETTING.
>> SO I'LL JUST SAY THAT I
THINK THAT THIS IS YOU KNOW,
REALLY INTERESTING, REALLY
THOROUGH APPLICATION.
THE THE APPLICATION IS REALLY
GREAT, INCLUDING ALL OF THE
INFORMATION, ALL THE DETAIL.
>> THE RENDERINGS WERE
EXTREMELY HELPFUL.
I DO READ THIS AS A HYPHEN.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT HYPHEN.
>> JUST ONE STORY.
I MEAN HYPHENS COULD BE THREE
STORIES AND THEN YOU'D BE
LOSING EVEN MORE HISTORIC
MATERIAL FROM THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
THERE'S A ONE STORY HYPHEN
SEPARATOR, WHATEVER.
I THINK IT'S I THINK IT'S VERY
EFFECTIVE AND AND IT'S NOT JUST
KIND OF SLAPPED ON AS A CONCEPT
PEOPLE YOU CAN USE A HYPHEN AS
A CONCEPT.
THIS IS EXTREMELY FUNCTIONAL AT
THREE SEPARATE ENTRANCES FOR
THE YOU KNOW, IT'S REALLY GOING
TO BE A HUB OF ACTIVITY THERE
AS WELL.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT.
OK, IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE I
SPARKED ANY CONVERSATION THERE.
>> SO WE'RE JUST GOING TO GO
RIGHT TO A VOTE AFTER THAT.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THIS
PROJECT PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE APPLICATION PASSES.
IT'S BEEN APPROVED.
>> THEY LIKE ME SAY PLEASE NOTE
YOU MUST RECEIVE ALL REQUIRED
PERMITS BEFORE STARTING THIS
PROJECT AND ALSO THAT WHAT'S ON
THE PERMITS HAS TO MATCH WHAT'S
ON THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
PROPOSAL.
SO GOOD LUCK AND THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> YEAH, OF COURSE.
OK, MOVING RIGHT ALONG WE'RE AT
F SIX AND IT'S THREE THIRTY
THREE EIGHTH STREET THE STAFF
REPORT WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS.
THIS 1914 TWO STORY HOME
FEATURES A SCULPTED CONCRETE
BLOCK FOUNDATION ONE OVER ONE
WINDOWS PLUS A FIXED WINDOW
UNDER THE FRONT PORCH WITH A
LEADED GLASS TRANSAM AND A
STONE BLOCK FRONT PORCH.
>> THERE'S A BAY WINDOW ON THE
BACK HALF OF THE FIRST FLOOR
NORTH ELEVATION AND THE HOME'S
THREE EXTERIOR DOORS APPEAR TO
BE FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE GABLE DORMER ON
THE NORTH ELEVATION APPEARS TO
BE ORIGINAL OF THE HOUSE
ANOTHER ON THE SOUTH ELEVATION
IS INSET AND HIS MODERN HOUSE
WAS FIRST OCCUPIED BY MANUEL
AND TINA FRYE.
MANUEL WAS A MACHINE HAND AT
SUPERIOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
AND THE HOUSE IS LOCATED ON THE
EAST SIDE OF EIGHTH STREET
NORTH OF WEST LIBERTY AND SOUTH
OF WEST WASHINGTON.
>> THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO REMOVE A REAR PORCH
AND CONSTRUCT A ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY EIGHT SQUARE FOOT
BATHROOM EDITION OFF THE REAR.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I APPRECIATE IN THIS PHOTO THAT
THEY'RE THEY'RE PROBABLY NOT
HISTORIC BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
BIG ENOUGH BUT THEY DO HAVE THE
TRADITIONAL PAIR OF PINE TREES
THAT WERE OFTEN FOUND IN FRONT
OF GERMAN HOUSES IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE.
HERE'S LOOKING DOWN THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN SEE
THE LOVELY LITTLE BAY WINDOW
THERE.
>> THERE'S A LARGE MODERN
GARAGE BEHIND THAT'LL COME INTO
PLAY IN A MOMENT.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
AND THIS IS THE VAN THAT YOU
SAW IN THE LAST PHOTO PARKED IN
THE DRIVEWAY.
THIS PORCH IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE THOUGH IT HAS
BEEN ALTERED QUITE A BIT.
>> IT WAS SORT OF INFORMALLY
ENCLOSED.
THESE ARE SCREENS IT MIGHT HAVE
HAD WINDOWS NOT REALLY SURE
IT'S BEING SORT OF HELD
TOGETHER RIGHT NOW.
IT HAS VERTICAL LIKE IT'S LIKE
WAINSCOT FOR A WALL HERE AND
THE WALL HERE.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT WAS
ORIGINAL.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE THAT IT WAS
IT'S NOT IN GREAT SHAPE.
THEY ALSO USED IT FOR THE
SKIRTING.
>> HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW.
THIS IS A VERY LOVELY BACK DOOR
THAT THEY ARE PROPOSING TO
REUSE AS THE NEW BACK DOOR IN A
DIFFERENT LOCATION.
HERE'S A VIEW DOWN THE SOUTH
SIDE YARD.
IT'S A BIG OPEN SIDE YARD AND
IT HAS A SIDE OR HERE WITH A
CUTE LITTLE CANOPY OVER THE TOP
.
THESE STEAKS WERE PLACED THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE SAW THEM WHEN
THEY WERE THERE, REPLACED BY
THE PROPERTY OWNER TO SHOW
WHERE THE EXTENT WOULD BE
OF THE ADDITIONS.
IT'S SMALL.
IT'S CONSTRAINED ON THIS SIDE
BY THE DRIVEWAY.
THEY DON'T WANT TO GET ANY
CLOSER TO THAT DRIVEWAY THAN
THEY HAVE TO BECAUSE THEY PARK
VEHICLES THERE AND IT'S
CONSTRAINED ON THIS SIDE BY THE
CORNER OF THE HOUSE WHICH WHICH
IS INSET MODESTLY YOU'LL SEE IN
A SECOND JUST ANOTHER VIEW.
>> SOME WORK HAS BEEN DONE ON
THE DECKING BUT IT'S A PRETTY
STANDARD BACK PORCH.
>> THAT'S THE BACK DOOR THAT
WOULD BE REUSED.
THIS IS TO GIVE YOU SOME
CONTEXT TO THE SOUTH THERE IS A
HOUSE WITH A VERY LARGE
ADDITION.
IT WAS PROBABLY PUT ON BEFORE
THIS WAS A HISTORIC DISTRICT OR
BEFORE THE MODERN RULES CHANGE
.
>> THAT SAID, WE HAD TO WE
COULD ONLY LOOK AT THE FRONT
FIFTEEN FEET OF THE HOUSE.
>> HERE'S THE THE CORNER OF THE
EDITION.
>> THERE'S THE SITE PLAN
SHOWING THE EXISTING GARAGE AND
THE EXTENT OF THE EXISTING
CONCRETE DRIVEWAY.
>> I BELIEVE IT GOES OUT LIKE
THIS.
>> THIS IS PART OF THE CONCRETE
SO THEY'VE THEY'VE TUCKED IT IN
HERE BETWEEN THE CORNER OF THE
HOUSE JUST INSET A LITTLE BIT
LIKE THE WIDTH OF THE TRIM
BOARD AND THIS IS THE LITTLE
PORCH THAT'S THERE NOW THAT IT
WOULD REPLACE IT IS LOCATED SO
THAT THIS DINING ROOM WINDOW
REMAINS OPEN, UNCOVERED, NOT
OBSCURED.
>> THE ADDITION HAS SMALL
MUDROOM AND A BATHROOM AND FOR
BATHROOM USEFUL FOR UH I DON'T
KNOW WHERE I WAS GOING WITH
THAT.
IT HAS SMALL WINDOWS BUT IT IS
A BATHROOM AND A MODERN ROOM SO
IT DOESN'T HAVE LARGE GLORIOUS
WINDOWS.
>> HERE ARE SOME RENDERINGS.
IT HAS A LITTLE PORCH, A LITTLE
INSET PORCH TO ENTER FROM AND
THERE IS VERTICAL SIDING I
BELIEVE IT'S SEVEN TISH'S BELOW
THE TRIM BOARD HERE AND IT'S
HERTIE PANELS ABOVE.
>> SO FIBER CEMENT PANELS ON
THE UPPER HALF.
THIS IS THE WEST ELEVATION.
THERE ARE NO CHANGES.
>> HERE'S THE EXISTING NORTH.
YOU CAN SEE A LITTLE PORCH HERE
ON THE LEFT AND THE NEW
PROPOSED ONE NEW PROPOSED
MUDROOM BATHROOM.
>> IT IT'S JUST A VERY SMALL
ADDITION THAT TIES IN VERY WELL
WITH THE REST OF THE HOUSE.
>> IT'S MODEST.
IT'S DISTINGUISHED AS NEW WORK
AND THERE'S A GOOD RENDERING
OF IT JUST A COUPLE MORE PHOTOS
HERE SHOWING HOW CLOSE IT WOULD
GET.
I SEE THIS WAS NOT PAVEMENT.
>> IT'S MAYBE USED TO BE
ALL
RIGHT.
YOU HAVE HEARD TWO, NINE AND
TEN ALREADY TONIGHT AND YOU
HAVE HEARD SOME OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ADDITIONS.
>> I HAVE READ THESE SO FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR'S
STANDARDS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
CONSIDER THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
EDITION IN TERMS OF THE NEW USE
AND THE APPEARANCE OF OTHER
BUILDINGS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN
FOR THE NEW WORK MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR MAY REFERENCE
DESIGN MOTIFS FROM THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT OF BOTH.
IT'S SORT OF A TRADITIONAL LOOK
USING SOME CONTEMPORARY THREE
KINDS OF SIDING THAT FITS IN
VERY WELL NOT RECOMMENDING THE
NOT RECOMMENDED IS ATTACHING A
NEW EDITION TO THE CHARACTER
TIFFINY FEATURES ARE OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THAT
IS THE CASE IN THIS CASE FROM
THE GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING IT'S NOT
RECOMMENDED TO INTRODUCE NEW
CONSTRUCTION THAT'S VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING FROM THE CITY
OF INTERIOR DESIGN GUIDELINES
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT THE
SIZE AND SCALE THE ADDITIONS IN
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE HISTORIC
BUILDING SO IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING OR THE DISTRICT
THAT IS NOT THE CASE IN THIS IN
THIS EXAMPLE.
>> SO LET ME GO BACK UP HERE TO
OUR DRAWINGS.
>> THAT'S A GOOD ONE.
>> THE ADDITION IS 11 FEET BY
14 FEET.
>> I MENTIONED ALREADY THAT THE
HISTORIC BACK OR WILL BE REUSED
AND STAFF'S OPINION THAT THE
WORK IS APPROPRIATE.
THE EXISTING REPORT HAS BEEN
ALTERED TO A POINT WHERE ONLY
THE ROOF STRUCTURE RETAINS ITS
INTEGRITY.
THEREFORE THE PROPOSED WORK IS
AN APPROPRIATE WAY OUT OF FIRST
FLOOR BATHROOM THAT IT'S A
COMPATIBLE DESIGN THAT'S
NOMINALLY VISIBLE FROM THE
STREET.
IT'S DIFFERENTIATE
DIFFERENTIATED ADEQUATELY WILL
REMAIN REMAINING COMPLEMENTARY
TO THE HISTORIC HOUSE AND
DISTRICT.
>> THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MISS THATCHER.
>> WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
LET'S HEAR YOUR REPORT,
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN, I THOUGHT
THE ECHOING WHAT WAS SAID ON
THE STAFF REPORT EVERYTHING
EVERYTHING WAS STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THE ONLY THING THAT DID EVEN
MILDLY RAISE THE QUESTION WAS
THE PLACEMENT CLOSE TO THE SIDE
OF THE HOUSE OF THE EDITION.
BUT WHEN YOU SEE IT IT WAS
CLEAR THAT THE WORK VAN WAS
THERE.
BUT WHEN YOU SEE HOW IT WOULD
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE THAT CAR
PLACEMENT SO THAT YOU COULD
STILL USE THE GARAGE WITH A
SECOND CAR AND ALSO THE
EXISTING WINDOW OF THE HOUSE
THE HOMEOWNERS WERE LEFT MUCH
CHOICE BUT TO PUT IT THERE AND
STILL WERE ABLE TO INDENT
SUFFICIENTLY FROM FROM THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE THAT I THINK IT
RESPECTS THE EXISTING MEMBERS
OF THE HOUSE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I AGREE AND I HAVE NOTHING TO
ADD.
SO WE'LL GO RIGHT INTO THE
APPLICANT REPORT.
IT LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE THE
APPLICANT HERE ON ZOOME, THE
ARCHITECT.
>> SO PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
JUST GIVE YOUR PRESENTATION
PLACE.
>> WE HEAR ME.
YES WE CAN BUT MY NAME IS MOLLY
BATCHELOR.
>> I'M THE ARCHITECT OF THIS
PROJECT.
>> MY ADDRESS IS EIGHT TWENTY
THREE MINOR STREET IN ANN ARBOR
.
I THINK WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO
ADD IS JUST THAT THE GENESIS
OF THIS PROJECT IS TO ALLOW
AGING IN PLACE.
THIS HOUSE IS LITERALLY AS IT
WAS WHEN IT WAS BUILT.
THERE'S BEEN VERY FEW CHANGES
JUST A DORMER IN THE ATTIC AND
WE CAN ALSO PUT IN THE INTERIOR
LAYOUT THE SAME SO THERE IS NO
FIRST BATHROOM WHICH IS A REAL
CHALLENGE FOR PEOPLE FACING
MOBILITY ISSUES AND THIS IS THE
ONLY PLACE THEY CAN PUT IT IF
THEY COULD DO AND RESTORE THIS
PORCH SOMEHOW WE WOULD HAVE
CONSIDERED THAT BUT WITHOUT
DOING SOME SORT OF FRONT SIDE
ADDITION THIS IS REALLY OUR
ONLY OPTION.
WE KEPT IT AS SMALL AS WE CAN
WITHOUT MINIATURIZING ANYTHING
AGAIN MOBILITY ISSUES WE DON'T
WANT TO CONSTRAINT BUT THIS
REALLY IS QUITE MODESTLY SIZED
FOR WHAT WE'RE GETTING IN AND
AS WAS ALREADY MENTIONED, WE'VE
KEPT THE FLAT SURFACE OFFSET
AND WE WOULD DO IT MORE QUICKLY
BUT AGAIN IT WOULD NOT WORK
TOGETHER WITH THE WALKER AND
ALL OF THAT GIVEN THE OTHER
SIDE CONSTRAINTS, I THINK
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH MOLLY.
OK, ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONER
QUESTIONS?
>> OK, IN THAT CASE WE'LL GO TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND SO NOW
WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR 333 8TH STREET.
>> THERE'S NO ONE HERE AND DO
WE HAVE ANYONE ONLINE?
>> WE DO NOT.
WE DO NOT.
SO WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I'D ASK IF THERE'S
A COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS ITEM.
>> OH, COMMISSIONER CARTER.
YEP.
GREAT.
KEN, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT THREE THREE
THREE EIGHTH STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
EIGHT SQUARE FOOT BATHROOM
ADDITIONS OFF THE REAR
ELEVATION OF THE HOUSE AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS AND
THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AND NEW
ADDITIONS.
>> DO WE HAVE A SECOND?
OK GREAT.
>> THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER CARTER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER SMITH.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO SOME
DISCUSSION.
I THINK WE'VE WE'VE HEARD FROM
STAFF AND FROM COMMISSIONER
KAPLAN AND I AGREE THIS IS A
VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD PROJECT.
THE THE APPLICATION AGAIN IS
VERY CLEAR AND THOROUGH AND WE
REALLY APPRECIATE THAT.
>> AND SO I'M WONDERING IS
THERE ANY YEAH.
I JUST WANT TO SAY SOMETHING,
YOU KNOW, FOR THE LAST COUPLE
OF MONTHS SOMETHING THAT CHUCK
BULTMANN SAID ABOUT THESE
HISTORIC HOUSES THAT THEY DO
NEED TO EVOLVE AND CAN EVOLVE
OVER TIME AND I THINK THAT
MARIANA AND JILL HAVE DONE A
GREAT JOB AND THE ARCHITECTS
THAT WE HAVE HEARD FROM TONIGHT
HAVE DONE A GREAT JOB OF DOING
THAT IN A REALLY SENSITIVE
MANNER.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT PROJECT, A
PERFECT DESCRIPTION OF HOW
HOUSE HAS TO EVOLVE WITH ITS
OCCUPANTS TO ADDRESS THE NEEDS
CHANGE OVER TIME.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT PROJECT.
I'M HAPPY TO SUPPORT IT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
>> VERY GOOD.
LET'S GO TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
OK, THE THE MOTION CARRIES AND
THE APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH.
HMM.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE MORE THAN
HALFWAY DONE WE'RE HEADING ON
TO F SEVEN IS THAT RIGHT F SIX
F SEVEN.
THE NEXT HEARING IS THREE FORTY
FIVE S DIVISION STREET THAT
WENT MORE QUICKLY THAN I WAS
READY FOR.
THAT'S OK.
TAKE YOUR TIME TAKE A DRINK
OF WATER.
ALL RIGHT.
THREE FORTY FIVE TELEVISION
DIVISION WERE BACK ON DIVISION
STREET FOR THE THIRD TIME
TONIGHT.
THAT'S A RECORD THIS HOUSE IS
IN THE EAST WILLIAM HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
>> IT IS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE AND IT'S THE 1865
JAMES C. ALLEN HOUSE.
>> IT USED TO HAVE A LONG WING
WITH A GABLED ROOF FACING
DIVISION AND A SMALLER
PERPENDICULAR WING TO THE NORTH
OR AN UPRIGHT WING.
>> THE NORTH WING IS STILL
THERE.
YOU'LL SEE IT IN A SECOND BUT
THE ROOF HAS BEEN ALTERED
SIMILAR TO THE 317 SOUTH
DIVISION THAT WE HEARD FROM A
LITTLE WHILE AGO THIS HOUSE WAS
ALTERED.
>> YOU HAVE A HIPPED ROOF WITH
A LITTLE DORMERS.
IT WAS VERY STYLISH THEN THIS
ONE THIS ONE GOT CHANGED IN
NINETEEN 008 IT AND AT THAT
POINT IT WAS GIVEN AS COLONIAL
REVIVAL FRONT PORCH AND IT WAS
A SPECTACULAR FRONT PORCH.
IT'S IT'S WIDE AND IT'S DEEP
AND IT'S GREAT.
>> IT FEATURES SHORT FLUTED
IONIC COLUMNS ON ROCK FACE
BLACK PEERS WHICH EXTEND THE
GROUND BETWEEN THESE IS A WOOD
BALUSTRADE WITH TURN SPINDLES
AND THERE ARE OLDER PAIRED
WINDOWS WITH DISTINCTIVE WOODS
FROM A PREVIOUS STYLE OF HOUSE
.
>> IN 1991 THE COMMISSION
DENIED A REQUEST FROM THE OWNER
FROM A PREVIOUS OWNER FOR VINYL
SIDING AND IN 1994 THE HGC
APPROVED NEW CEDAR SIDING AND
CEDAR SHINGLES ALONG WITH NEW
ROOFING AND AN ORNAMENTAL IRON
FENCE SITES LOCATED AT THE
NORTHEAST CORNER OF SOUTH
DIVISION AND EAST WILLIAM
STREETS.
>> THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO REMOVE TWO WINDOWS
AND A DOOR AND INFILL THE
OPENINGS INSTALL FOUR NEW
WINDOWS TWO SINGLES AND A PAIR
AND A DOOR ALL IN NEW OPENINGS
AND TO ENLARGE TO HISTORIC
WINDOW OPENINGS AND INSTALLED
NEW LARGER WINDOWS IN THEM.
>> IT'S CONFUSING AS HECK BUT
ONCE YOU SEE THE DRAWINGS IT'LL
MAKE PERFECT SENSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
FRONT OF THE HOUSE GORGEOUS.
THERE'S ALREADY HANDICAPPED
RAMP IN PLACE WHICH IS GREAT.
>> IT IS A IT HAS BEEN USED AS
A LAW OFFICE FOR MANY YEARS.
>> THIS IS A PHOTO LOOKING DOWN
THE DRIVEWAY OFF OF S DIVISION
.
NOTICE THAT THERE'S THIS THIS
SORT OF HIGH BAY WINDOW THERE.
IT'S PROBABLY A DINING ROOM AND
THAT WALL EXTENDS BACK AND THEN
THERE'S ANOTHER LITTLE WALL
BEHIND IT.
>> YOU CAN'T EVEN SEE IT IN
THIS PICTURE.
IT REALLY DOESN'T SHOW UP.
BUT THIS IS WHAT I'M TALKING
ABOUT.
>> IT'S PROBABLY ORIGINAL TO
THE NORTH WING THAT WAS
MENTIONED EARLIER.
IT DOES HAVE ITALIANATE
BRACKETT'S BUT IT ALSO HAS THIS
WINDOW THAT IS A NARROW
CASEMENT WINDOW WITH WIDER TRIM
THAN THE REST OF THE HOUSE HAS
AND THIS IS THE REASON THAT WE
VARY THE TRIM WITH ON HOUSES SO
THAT WE CAN LOOK AT IT LATER
AND SAY HEY, THIS ONE WHO ISN'T
LIKE THE OTHER ONES IT WAS
PROBABLY INSTALLED LATER AND
THE CONTRACTOR HAS DONE WORK ON
THE HOUSE BEFORE AND ALSO
CONFIRMED THAT THIS IS NOT AN
ORIGINAL WINDOW OPENING.
SO THIS IS THE FIRST AREA THIS
WINDOW I'M NOT SURE IF IT GOES
AWAY OR NOT BUT THERE WOULD BE
TWO WINDOWS HERE INSTEAD ON
THIS WALL AROUND THE BACK
THERE'S A LITTLE PORCH BACK
HERE.
OH, THERE'S THAT WINDOW A
LITTLE BIT CLOSER UP.
>> IT'S JUST SORT OF AN AWKWARD
SIZE AND SHAPE GOING UP THE
STAIRS HERE ON THE LITTLE PORCH
THERE'S A DOOR TO THE RIGHT
WHICH I THINK I HAVE A PICTURE
OF IN A MINUTE IT'S PROPOSED TO
INFILL THAT OPENING AND PUT THE
DOOR RIGHT HERE.
>> IT MAKES A LOT MORE SENSE
FOR THE INTERIOR LAYOUT FOR
THEM TO DO THAT THERE IT IS NOT
A HISTORIC DOOR GOING INTO THIS
WALL HERE NOW WE'RE STILL IN
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
>> NOTICE THAT THESE TWO HOUSES
ARE LIKE SIX OR SEVEN FEET
APART.
THEY'RE REALLY CLOSE.
>> THIS IS A CHIMNEY AND
ORIGINAL CHIMNEY GOING UP.
YOU SEE THE REALLY COOL OLD
ITALIANATE BRACKETT'S FROM THE
OLDER STYLE OF HOUSE THAT THIS
ONCE WAS.
THERE'S ONE SINGLE WINDOW HERE
AND THERE'S PROPOSED TO FOR
THAT TO GO AWAY AND TO PUT A
PAIR OF WINDOWS UP A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER TO THE STREET AND YOU
CAN'T SEE IN THIS PHOTO BUT
THERE'S A WINDOW ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE CHIMNEY HERE.
>> HERE IT IS.
OH, THEY'RE ACTUALLY TWO
WINDOWS HERE.
SO YOU COULDN'T EVEN SEE THEM
FROM THIS PHOTO THIS WINDOW IS
NOT LIKE THE OTHERS.
THIS IS AN OLD WINDOW.
IT HAS A VERY
WELL ROUNDED
SILL.
>> IT'S GOT A LOT OF DETAIL ON
THE TRIM AND THE CASING AND
IT'S REALLY INSET VERY DEEP.
>> YOU CAN SEE HOW THAT'S
THAT'S LIKE A GOOD SIX INCHES
THERE.
SO WE TALK TO THE CONTRACTOR ON
SITE AND HE CAN CONFIRM IT'S
HIS CHANCE TO TALK.
>> BUT MY RECOMMENDATION TO THE
COMMISSION IS THAT THIS WINDOW
BE LEFT ALONE AND I THINK HE
WAS OK WITH THAT AND BECAUSE
THIS IS A HISTORIC FEATURE AND
THE PROPOSAL WAS TO MAKE IT
BIGGER TO MATCH A NEW WINDOW.
>> IT'S PROPOSED TO GO ON THE
SIDE OF THE CHIMNEY BUT THERE'S
NO REASON FOR IT AND IT'S IT'S
A COOL WINDOW.
>> YOU DON'T REALLY SEE IT.
I NEVER WOULD HAVE NOTICED IT
HAD IT NOT POINTED OUT TO ME.
>> BUT NEVERTHELESS IT'S IT'S
OUR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
OF THE HOUSE THERE IT IS.
I ESPECIALLY LIKE THE ROUND
SILL.
>> YOU DON'T SEE THAT VERY
OFTEN AND THERE IT IS UP THERE
HERE AGAIN HOUSES REALLY CLOSE
TOGETHER.
>> I COULDN'T EVEN GET A GOOD
PICTURE TO SHOW YOU WHERE THOSE
WINDOWS ARE GOING TO BE
INSTALLED, THE PAIR OF WINDOWS
BUT THEY WOULD MATCH
APPROXIMATELY THESE WINDOWS
THAT WERE, YOU KNOW, FROM A
SLIGHTLY MORE MODERN ERA THAN
THE ITALIANATE PROBABLY WHEN
THEY READ IT AT NINETEEN EIGHTY
EIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
UH, YOU KNOW, SECOND I GOT YOU
SOME THINGS OUT OF THE WAY ON
MY SCREEN, OK?
>> THIS IS THE BASEMENT
FLOORPLAN OR MAYBE IT'S THE
FIRST WORKSHOP YOU DON'T IT'S
THE FIRST FLOOR I'VE THIS IS
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE THIS IS
THAT LITTLE STAIRCASE AND THAT
DOOR AND WHERE THE DOOR WANTS
TO GO AND THE WINDOWS ON THE
BACK I'VE BLOWN IT UP HERE TO
TRY TO SHOW YOU WHAT'S GOING ON
WALKING OUR WAY AROUND HERE.
>> THIS IS THAT THIS IS THAT
AWKWARD CASEMENT GO OVER HERE
AND YOU CAN SEE ON THE BOTTOM
THAT IT WOULD THERE WOULD BE
TWO WINDOWS INSTEAD THAT ARE
ABOUT THE SAME SIZE.
I THINK IT'S THAT THIS OPENING
IS JUST GETTING A LITTLE BIT
BIGGER AND THERE WOULD BE TWO
WINDOWS THERE ON THE BACK.
>> YOU SEE THAT THE DOOR HAS
BEEN ENFIELD RIGHT HERE AND NOW
IT SWINGS INWARD OVER HERE AND
UP TOP HERE YOU'VE GOT THE TWO
PHOTOS THAT YOU SAW IN THE
PHOTO INFELD AND A PAIR PLACE
NEXT TO THEM THAT ARE SIMILAR
IN STYLE TO THE WINDOWS THAT
ARE ON THE FRONT HERE OF THE
KITCHEN FACING EAST WILLIAM
AGAIN SECOND FLOOR SAME THING.
THIS IS NEW WINDOW OPENING.
THIS IS THAT EXISTING ONE THAT
STAFF THINKS NEEDS TO STAY
THERE AND AT LAST THE DRAWING
THAT MAKES SENSE OF IT ALL DOOR
INFELD NEW WINDOW.
>> THIS IS THE WINDOW THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE LEFT ALONE.
THESE TWO ARE UNFILLED.
THERE'S NOTHING SPECIAL ABOUT
THOSE WINDOWS AND THIS PAIR PUT
IN INSTEAD TO GET MORE LIGHT
INTO THE KITCHEN.
AND HERE'S THE NEW DOOR OPENING
HERE WE'VE GOT THIS IS THE
UPDATED OPENING.
IT'S MADE A LITTLE WIDER TO BE
A LITTLE BIT MORE COMPATIBLE.
IT'S NOT THAT SKINNY CASEMENT
THIS IS THE CASEMENT AND I
THINK THAT THE OTHER ONE IN THE
BACK WAS TO ON THE SECOND FLOOR
BUT THERE THE STYLE OF , YOU
KNOW, HAVING THE FALSE BUTTONS
TO MAKE THEM COMPATIBLE AND
LOOK LIKE LIKE HUNG WINDOWS TWO
OVER TO BUT ABLE TO MEET EGRESS
REQUIREMENTS.
>> HERE'S A ROUGH PLAN OF THE
HOUSE.
>> THERE ARE WINDOW DETAILS IN
THE PACKET, LOTS OF THEM.
THE WINDOWS WOULD MATCH THE
WINDOWS OF THE REST OF THE
HOUSE THAT HAVE BEEN PREVIOUSLY
REALLY REPLACED.
ALSO THEY ARE SIMULATED DIVIDED
LIGHTS.
THAT'S THE GOOD KIND WITH THE
BUTTONS ON THE INSIDE OUTSIDE
OF THE SPACER BARS IN BETWEEN
AND TWO FIVE NINE TEN OH THAT'S
DONE ON HERE HAVE ALL BEEN READ
TO YOU TONIGHT FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES OF THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING ITS
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER FROM
THE GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED AS DESIGNING AND
INSTALLING ADDITIONAL WINDOWS
ON RIR OR NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS IS REQUIRED
BY THE NEW USE.
>> NEW WINDOW OPENINGS MAY ALSO
BE EXPOSED PARTY WALLS SUCH
DESIGN SHOULD BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE OVERALL DESIGN THE
BUILDING BUT NOT DUPLICATE THE
FENESTRATION PATTERN AND
DETAILING OF A CHARACTER
FINDING ELEVATION.
>> I SHOULD NOTE THAT ALL
OF THESE NEW WINDOW OPENINGS
ARE FOR EGRESS THERE IN
BEDROOMS.
IT'S GOING BACK TO RESIDENTIAL
USE.
IT'S GOING WELL.
YEAH IT'S IT'S GOING TO BE A
HOUSE AGAIN NOT APPROPRIATE IS
REMOVING A RADICALLY CHANGING A
WINDOW THAT IS IMPORTANT AND
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY OR
CHANGING THE NUMBER, LOCATION
AND SIZE BY CUTTING NEW
OPENINGS, LOCKING IT OR
INSTALLING REPLACEMENT SASH
WHICH DOES NOT FIT THE HISTORIC
OPENING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT MORE TO SAY
ON THIS ONE EXCEPT I HAVE YOU
KNOW, I HAVE A COMPLICATION FOR
THE MOTION BECAUSE I AM
SUGGESTING THAT YOU CONDITION
THE MOTION ON THE CONDITION
THAT THE HISTORIC SECOND FLOOR
WINDOW ON THE E ELEVATION IS
NOT ALTERED IN ANY WAY THAT
WOULD BE AN ADDITION TO THE
MOTION I BELIEVE THAT IT'S
ALREADY CONDITION.
YES.
SO WE WOULD JUST ADD IT TO THE
LIST OF CONDITIONS RIGHT NOW
I'M SUGGESTING THAT A NEW DOOR
THAT'S PROPOSED ON THE BACK BE
APPROVED BY STAFF BEFORE
PERMITS MAY BE ISSUED BECAUSE
THERE WASN'T ANY DETAIL ON THE
DOOR.
YOU'RE NOT EVEN GOING TO BE
ABLE TO SEE IT ANYWHERE BUT
WE'D LIKE TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT
AND THAT THE WINDOW TRIM ON ALL
NEW AND MODIFIED WINDOWS IS
DIFFERENTIATED IN SIZE FROM THE
HISTORIC TRIM BY AT LEAST A
HALF AN INCH BECAUSE THAT ALSO
IT WAS SPECIFIED TO MATCH IT
EXACTLY.
BUT WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THAT AND
I THINK THAT THIS COVERS
EVERYTHING IF WE HAVE THOSE TWO
CONDITIONS PLUS THE HISTORIC
SECOND FLOOR WINDOW ON THE EAST
ELEVATION IS NOT ALTERED IN ANY
WAY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
THATCHER.
OK, WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> COMMISSIONER KAPLAN, PLEASE.
I THINK IT WAS A VERY COMPLETE
STAFF.
I THINK THE OTHER THING I WOULD
JUST ADD THAT BEING ON THIS
SITE IT IT CANNOT BE
OVEREMPHASIZE AS TO HOW
INCONSPICUOUS THE LOCATIONS ARE
ON THIS HOUSE WHERE THESE
CHANGES ARE BEING PROPOSED.
I MEAN THE THE DOMINANT FACE
OF THIS HOUSE OR THE ARE THE
STREET FACING SIDES AND WE ARE
TUCKED BACK IN EITHER THE BACK
CORNER IN A RECESS WITH
REFERENCE TO DOOR REPLACEMENT
BUT THEN IN THE WINDOWS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HERE IN THIS
NARROW CHANNEL BETWEEN TWO
HOUSES AS YOU SEE IN THE
PHOTOGRAPH.
I MEAN THESE ARE THESE ARE
REALLY, REALLY SUBTLE UNSEEN
PLACES.
>> YEAH, IT'S A GREAT POINT.
WE REALLY HAD TO SQUEEZE IN AND
MAYBE DO SOME TRESPASSING TO
ACTUALLY GET TO WHERE WE NEEDED
TO GO TO SEE THE ESPECIALLY THE
WINDOWS ON THE BACK THERE LIKE
YOU WOULD SEE FROM THIS PHOTO.
>> YEAH.
AND THERE ARE THERE'S A HUGE
VARIETY OF WINDOWS AND WINDOW
TRIMS ON THIS PROJECT ALSO.
SO IT'S NOT LIKE THERE IS KIND
OF SOME COHESIVE PATTERN THAT
THAT IS EASILY RED THAT YOU CAN
SEE THAT THAT THERE
MANIPULATING IN SOME WAY OR
CHANGING.
I THINK EVERYTHING THAT KIND
OF HAS A PATTERN IS BEING LEFT
AS IS AND I GUESS OTHERWISE
JUST FROM THE PROJECT THEY'RE
DOING AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT
OF WORK TO THIS STRUCTURE AND
SO IT'S IT'S A HUGE SCOPE
OF WORK AND THEY THEY ARE
CHANGING A FEW THINGS BUT IT
DOES SEEM MINIMAL RELATIVE TO
JUST HOW MUCH THEY'RE DOING TO
THE INTERIOR.
THEY'RE NOT DOING THAT MUCH TO
THE EXTERIOR.
>> OK, SO LET'S HEAR FROM THE
APPLICANT NOW.
SO DO WE HAVE THE OPTION HERE?
GREAT.
SO APPROACH THE PODIUM PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR
THE RECORD AND WE'D LIKE TO
HEAR YOUR PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU.
I'M SEAN URBAN.
I'M REPRESENTING KIRKENES
CONSTRUCTION.
WE'RE ALSO REPRESENTING THE
CLIENT WHO WAS VERY ADAMANT ON
MAINTAINING THE SPIRIT OF THE
PROPERTY, KEEPING IT AS
ORIGINAL AS POSSIBLE.
PERKINS' CONSTRUCTION IS VERY
FAMILIAR WITH THE PROPERTY.
WE'VE WORKED ON IT FOR THE PAST
I WANT TO SAY TWENTY FIVE YEARS
WE BUILT THAT FRONT PORCH.
WE DESIGN THAT FRONT PORCH TO
COINCIDE WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
.
WE WERE A LITTLE UPSET THAT WE
WERE TURNING IT INTO A
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY AND TAKING
SOME OF THE LIFE ESPECIALLY MY
LIFE OUT OF THE PROPERTY.
BUT WE'RE VERY EXCITED TO MAKE
IT A RESIDENCE AGAIN.
IT IS GOING TO BE A RESIDENCE
ENJOYED BY THE CURRENT CLIENT
AND THEY'LL BE SOME TIMES WHERE
HE OFFERS TO THE PUBLIC FOR AN
AIRBNB WAS ONCE A DARK CORNER
OF THE NIGHTLIFE OF ANN ARBOR
IS NOW GOING TO BE LIT AND
THEY'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
KEEPING THE EXTERIOR AS
ORIGINAL AS HUMANLY POSSIBLE.
YES, THERE'S A RIDICULOUS
AMOUNT OF WORK GOING ON ON THE
INTERIOR AND WE'VE ALREADY DONE
SOME EXPLORATORY DEMOLITION AND
THERE'S THERE'S A LOT THERE BUT
THEY'RE ADAMANT ON KEEPING THE
EXTERIOR ORIGINAL.
I DID SPEAK WITH THE CLIENTS
AND THEY'RE ACTUALLY EXCITED
ABOUT KEEPING THAT ORIGINAL
WINDOW IS KEEPING IT THE WAY IT
IS.
WE'RE GOING TO ADJUST THE SIZE
OF THE ADJACENT WINDOW TO
ACCOMMODATE SOME LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE FOR THAT
BEDROOM BUT THEY HAVE NO
PROBLEMS WITH CHANGING THAT.
I ALREADY HAVE DRAWINGS DRAWN
UP FOR THE PROPOSED DOOR THAT'S
GOING TO BE SOMEWHAT VISIBLE.
I MEAN IF YOU TURN THE CORNER
YOU'LL BE ABLE TO SEE IT AND
IT'S GOING TO MATCH.
THERE'S AN ADJACENT PROPERTY I
THINK IT'S FOR ELEVEN E
WILLIAMS THERE'S A DOOR THAT'S
VISIBLE.
WE'RE GOING TO MATCH THAT OR
IT'S GOING TO BE LIKE A HALF
GLASS UNOBSCURED NO BUTTONS ON
THE HALF GLASS BUT POSSIBLY
SOMETHING DECORATIVE ON THE
LOWER PORTION AND THAT'S THANK
YOU SEAN
.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR SEAN?
>> I HAVE ONE WHILE YOU'RE
THINKING MAYBE BUT OK SO IT
SOUNDED LIKE THE DESIGN TEAM,
THE CLIENT THE AFRICAN LET'S
SAY IS GOOD WITH KEEPING THAT
WINDOW THAT STAFF TALKED ABOUT.
YEAH, GREAT.
AND SO I THINK RIGHT NOW IT
SOUNDS LIKE ARE YOU CHANGING IT
THOUGH LIKE FROM WHAT'S
PROPOSED IF IT'S LIKE A TYPE
TWO RIGHT NOW, IS IT NOT GOING
TO BE A TYPE TWO ANYMORE?
YOU SAID MAYBE IT NEEDS TO BE
LIKE RIGHT NOW I SHOULD BE
CLEAR.
SO WE'RE SAVING THAT WINDOW
THAT'S ON ONE SIDE OF THE
GIMCRACK OPPOSITE THE CHIMNEY.
>> THERE'S ANOTHER NEW OPENING
AND NEW WINDOW PROPOSED.
>> ARE YOU PROPOSING THAT
THAT'S BIGGER?
THAT'S ALWAYS BEEN INTENDED,
YES.
BUT WE HAVE TO MAKE IT SLIGHTLY
LARGER TO ACCOMMODATE THE
LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE I
GOT IT THE WINDOW SIZE AN
OPENING WILL STILL BE THE SAME.
IT'S JUST THERE'S MUCH MORE
TRIM ON THE ORIGINAL WINDOW.
OH SO YEAH WHEN YOU HAVE THIS
THERE'S A LOT OF STEPPING GOING
INTO THE GLASS WHEN YOU SAID
THE CAVITY IS MUCH DEEPER IN OH
OK YOU HAVE TO GO IN A FEW
TIMES TO ADJUST TO THAT OK SIZE
WISE IT SHOULD STILL LOOK OK ON
THE SO FOR THE EXTERIOR WHAT
WE'RE SEEING AS PROPOSED IS
GOING TO BE THE SAME.
>> YES OK VERY GOOD.
AND THEN THE OTHER CONDITIONS
LIKE TRIM SIZE WHAT WAS THE
WHAT WERE THE CONDITIONS.
WELL IT WAS TRIM SIZE AND
SLIGHTLY YEAH.
>> SO YOU'VE YOU'VE GOT THAT OK
I HAVE A PROPOSED DRAWING
ATTENTION DRAWN RIGHT NOW.
YEAH IT WILL BE WHAT'S GOING TO
BE BUILT.
>> I'M GOING TO SUBMIT THAT TO
JILL ON MONDAY.
OK THE NEW DOOR THAT RIGHT IN
THE NEW DOOR WILL BE STAFF
APPROVAL WHICH YOU SAID YOU
SURE THAT'S GOING TO BE READY
MONDAY?
OK, SEE WE'RE GOING TO TURN IT
AROUND.
YEAH YEAH BUT YES YOU'LL HAVE A
GOOD OK BEFORE WE CAN SIGN OFF
ON YOUR BUILDING.
YOU GOT IT.
VERY GOOD.
OK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
SEAN.
>> NOPE VERY GOOD.
OK THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT NOW WE'LL GO TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
>> SO IS THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
345 SOUTH DIVISION.
>> WE DON'T ANYONE APPROACHING
THE PODIUM IS THERE ANYONE
ONLINE?
>> NO ONE IS INDICATING ONLINE.
>> VERY GOOD.
SO WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I'LL ASK IF THERE'S
ANY COMMISSIONER WHO'D LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS.
>> I THINK IT'S MY TURN.
IT SURE IS.
YEAH.
SO WHEN I MAKE A MESS OF THIS
JILL, YOU'LL HAVE TO HELP ME
FIX FIX IT.
I MOVE THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT THREE
FORTY FIVE SOUTH DIVISION
STREET CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
THE EAST WILLIAM HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO REMOVE TWO WINDOWS
AND A DOOR IN FILL THE OPENINGS
WITH WOOD SIDING TO INSTALL
FOUR NEW WINDOWS, TWO SINGLES
AND A PAIR AND A DOOR IN NEW
OPENINGS AND THEN LARGE TO
HISTORIC WINDOW OPENINGS AND
INSTALL NEW WINDOWS IN THEM ON
THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS ONE
THAT THE NEW DOOR IS APPROVED
BY STAFF BEFORE BUILDING
PERMITS MAY BE ISSUED TO THAT
THE HISTORIC WINDOW ON THE
SECOND FLOOR E ELEVATION REMAIN
UNTOUCHED AND NUMBER THREE THAT
ALL NEW AND MODIFIED WINDOWS IS
DIFFERENTIATED IN SIZE FROM THE
HISTORIC TRIM BY AT LEAST A
HALF AN INCH AS A CONDITION
THAT WORK AS PROPOSED IS
COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT MATERIALS AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HOUSE AND
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE AND WINDOWS AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT GUIDELINES
PARTICULARLY AS THEY PERTAIN TO
WINDOWS.
>> MR. WOOD, YOU CARE TO CHANGE
THE WORD TWO TO ONE IN THE PART
OF THE SENTENCE THAT SAYS AND
ENLARGE TWO HISTORIC WINDOWS?
>> YES, ONE THANK YOU.
>> SO DOES I TAKE CARE OF THE
OTHER CONDITION OF LEAVING THAT
ONE?
YEP.
THAT'S IN THERE.
YEAH.
WE GOT IT ALL SET.
OK, SO THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SMITH TO HAVE A
SECOND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN FANTAN.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
>> OK, SO GREAT.
>> I THINK AGAIN WE'VE GOT A
IT'S A BIT OF A THERE'S A BLOCK
GOING ON BUT IT'S MORE OR LESS
STRAIGHTFORWARD WHAT'S GOING ON
AND I THINK WE'VE HEARD A LOT
ABOUT IT IS EVERYONE CLEAR AND
IS ANYONE WANT TO BRING UP ANY
POINTS OF CONTENTION HERE WITH
WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED?
>> NO, OK, I THINK THAT'S
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, THE THE THE
THE SITE THAT WE HAVE IS IS SO
CONSTRAINED IN SUCH A WAY THAT
ALL OF THE CHANGES ARE
HAPPENING IN THESE HARD TO SEE
LOCATIONS WHICH WE APPRECIATE.
>> SO THEN LET'S GET RIGHT TO A
VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> THANK YOU, SEAN.
YEP.
TAKE CARE.
GREAT.
SO WE ARE MOVING RIGHT ALONG TO
THE FINAL HEARING OF THE
EVENING.
WE'RE BACK TO OUR NUMBERS HERE
EIGHT AND IT'S FOUR OH THREE
SECONDS STREET.
>> OH THAT'S GREAT.
YEAH, VERY NICE.
>> THE STAFF REPORT WHENEVER
YOU'RE READY PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
UM, THIS IS FOR THREE SECOND
STREET.
>> IT IS LOCATED AT THE CORNER
OF WILLIAM STREET AND 2ND
STREET FACING SECOND STREET.
THE HOUSE IS FIRST SHOWN ON THE
NINETEEN SIXTEEN SANDBORN MAP
AS A TWO STOREY DWELLING WITH A
FOUR WITH FRONT PORCH WITH A
ONE STOREY REAR SECTION AND A
REAR PORCH BY NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE THE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
HAD BEEN CONSTRUCTED NEAR THE
SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE PARCEL
WHICH IS THE CURRENT GARAGE.
THERE APPEAR TO BE NO MAJOR
CHANGES TO A HOUSE DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE OR TO
THE GARAGE BUILDING PERMITS
WERE FILED TO ENCLOSE THE FRONT
PORCH IN 1973.
THE REAR PORCH IS ALSO
ENCLOSED.
UNCLEAR WHEN THAT HAPPENED.
>> UM SO THERE'S A LOT GOING ON
HERE.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A
BASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW AND WELL
ON THE NORTH ELEVATION AND TO
CONVERT A DOOR OPENING ON THE
WEST ELEVATION INTO AN EGRESS
WINDOW ALSO INCLUDED IN THE
APPLICATION ARE AN ADDITIONAL
BASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION REMOVAL OF NON
ORIGINAL SIDING AND TRIM AND
CLOSING OF THE PORCHES REMOVING
A CHAIN LINK FENCE AND
INSTALLING A NEW PATIO AMONG
OTHER THINGS.
>> MOST OF THEM COULD BE STAFF
APPROVED BUT SINCE WE HAVE THE
EGRESS WINDOWS NEEDED TO COME
TO THE COMMISSION SO ALL
OF THIS IS INCLUDED AND SO I'M
JUST GOING TO GO THROUGH ALL
OF IT.
>> THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
>> YOU CAN SEE THAT ENCLOSED
FRONT PORCH ANOTHER ANGLE THEN
THIS IS THE THE CHAIN LINK
FENCE THAT YOU CAN SEE TOO
THAT'S PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED.
>> THIS IS THE WILLIAM STREET
SIDE.
SO ONE OF THE EGRESS WINDOWS
THAT WE'LL BE TALKING ABOUT
WILL GO RIGHT HERE IN THE
BASEMENT AND THERE WILL BE A
NEW WELL THIS IS THE NORTH
ELEVATION OR SOUTH INVASION
GETTING DIRECTIONS MIXED UP
WHEN I DON'T HAVE A MAP SOUTH.
>> THANK LOOKING TOWARDS THE
GARAGES RIGHT HERE THAT YOU CAN
SEE AND THAT IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE CAN KIND OF SEE
THE REPORTS BACK HERE THERE HAS
ALSO BEEN ENCLOSED AND THERE'S
ONE STOREY SECTION THERE'S ALSO
IS ALSO SHOWN ON THE SANDBORN
MAP.
>> THIS IS LOOKING BACK TOWARDS
SECOND STREET CHAIN LINK FENCE
AGAIN THIS IS THE WILLIAM
STREET ELEVATION RIGHT HERE IS
WHERE ONE OF THE NEW EGRESS
WINDOW WALLS IS PROPOSED.
ALSO ONE BACK HERE WHICH YOU
CAN SEE BETTER FROM THIS PHOTO.
SO THERE IS CURRENTLY A STAIR
AND A DOOR DOWN HERE TOWARDS TO
THE BASEMENT.
>> IT'S PROPOSED TO KEEP A
STAIR AND TO CONVERT THAT DOOR
INTO A WINDOW.
AND THEN HERE'S THE PORCH
REPORT WHICH IS ALSO PROPOSED
TO BE AN ENCLOSED FRONT PORCH
TO BE AN ENCLOSED AND THEN ALSO
A FRONT DOOR NOT ORIGINAL IS
SUPPOSED TO BE REMOVED AND
REPLACED WITH SOMETHING MORE
APPROPRIATE.
>> ANOTHER VIEW OF THAT REPORT
THEN THE INSIDE OF IT
WINDOWS
ARE SINGLE PANE AND GOOD AND
THEY ARE ALL OF THE EXISTING
WINDOWS ARE PROPOSED TO BE
RETAINED AND REPAIRED EXCEPT
FOR WHERE THE NEW EGRESS WINDOW
OPENING WILL BE.
>> HERE'S THE GARAGE AMONG SOME
OTHER THINGS SIDING IS PROPOSED
TO BE REPAIRED AND RESTORED AS
NECESSARY.
THIS GARAGE DOOR IS SUPPOSED TO
BE REPLACED SAME OPENING SIZE
AND THEN SAME THING WITH THE
PERSON DOOR REPLACED WITHIN THE
SAME OPENING.
>> THEN HERE IS LOOKING BACK AT
THE GARAGE YOU CAN SEE THE
SPACE BETWEEN THE GARAGE AND
THE HOUSE AND THEN THIS FENCE
RIGHT DRAWINGS MIGHT MAKE A
LITTLE BIT MORE SENSE.
SO LIKE I SAID, THERE'S A LOT
GOING ON HERE IS FROM THE SITE
PLAN TRY AND GO THROUGH MOST
THINGS AND THEN WE'LL SEE THEM
ON THE ELEVATIONS BUT THE CHAIN
LINK FENCE WILL BE REMOVED
ALONG THE PERIMETER OF THE
PROPERTY, THE FRONT PORCH AND
THEN THE REAR PORCH ARE GOING
TO BE AN ENCLOSED THIS IS ONE
OF THE NEW EGRESS WINDOW WELLS
THAT NEEDS TO BE APPROVED BY
THE COMMISSION.
THIS IS THE OTHER ONE AND THAT
IS THE DOOR THAT WOULD BE
CONVERTED INTO
A WINDOW.
THERE'S A THIRD BASEMENT EGRESS
WINDOW.
WELL, THAT IS PROPOSED.
THERE'S ONE BACK HERE THOUGH
COULD BE STAFF APPROVED BECAUSE
IT'S FAR BACK AND ON THE SIDE
ELEVATION THERE WILL BE SOME
LANDSCAPING THAT'S PROPOSED TO
KIND OF OBSCURE THE WINDOW
WELLS.
THIS ONE IS EXISTING KIND
OF THE SPACES EXISTING, THE
STAIRS EXISTING.
>> IT'S REALLY JUST THE OPENING
THAT WOULD CHANGE.
NEW PATIO IS PROPOSED PAVER
PATIO THAT WOULD CONNECT.
>> THERE'S AN EXISTING WALKWAY
THAT WOULD GO TOWARDS WILLIAM
STREET AND THE GARAGE WHICH
WOULD BE THOSE TWO DOORS AND
THEN THE SIDING AND THEN THE
SIDING HAS ALREADY STARTED TO
BE REMOVED AS WE SAW IN THE
PHOTOS.
>> BUT IT IS PROPOSED TO BE
REMOVED AND THEN THE WOOD
SIDING RESTORED BENEATH AND
FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
BECAUSE IT LOOKS TO BE
GENERALLY IN GOOD CONDITION.
>> A HISTORIC WOOD SIDING.
ALL RIGHT.
SO SEEING THAT ALL FROM A
PLANNED VIEW LISTING DEMO PLAN
SO YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE IS
ONE DOOR TO WINDOW, ONE NEW
WINDOW AND THEN ANOTHER NEW
WINDOW BACK HERE
THEN FOR THE
PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR PLAN PAVER
AND ENCLOSING THE PORCH AND
ENCLOSING THIS PORCH YOU CAN
SEE SOME OF THE LANDSCAPING
PROPOSED SCREEN CAN SEE THE
GARAGE DOOR WORK AND THEN A NEW
PAPER LANDING BACK HERE A
SECOND FLOOR NOT A WHOLE LOT
HAPPENING BUT JUST TO NOTE THAT
ALL OF THE WINDOWS WILL REMAIN
AND THE PORCH ROOFS AS WELL.
SO THE SIDING THE NON ORIGINAL
SIDING REMOVED AS PART OF THIS
APPLICATION IS PROPOSED AND TO
BE RESTORED I THINK I'VE
ALREADY MENTIONED MOST OF THIS
NEW FRONT DOOR.
THIS IS WHAT THE NEW PORCH
WOULD LOOK LIKE.
SO THE ROOF WILL REMAIN, THE
DECKING WILL REMAIN.
REPAIRS WERE NECESSARY.
THESE COLUMNS WILL BE NEW.
WHEN I LOOK AT MY NOTES I CAN
GIVE YOU SOME DIMENSIONS.
RAILING IS NEW, RAILING IS WOOD
AND THEN THERE WOULD BE SOME
NEW SKIRTING.
I BELIEVE THESE STAIRS ARE
GOING TO BE THE SAME AND THEN
THE DOOR WOULD BE REPLACED WITH
SOMETHING MORE APPROPRIATE THAT
YOU CAN SEE HERE WITH THE LIGHT
IN THE PANELS AND SEEING IT
FROM MY SIDE HERE YOU CAN SEE
THAT FRONT PORCH THIS WOULD BE
THE NEW EGRESS WINDOW.
WELL, THIS IS THE DOOR TO
WINDOW AND THEN THIS IS THE
CLOSING OF THE BACK PORCH.
MUCH MORE SIMPLE SCAN ROOF
REMAINING DECKING THE REMAINING
STAIR REMAINING AND THEN I CAN
GET THE DIMENSIONS OF THE
COLUMN WHEN I LOOK AT MY NOTES
AND THEN THIS IS JUST A REAR
ELEVATION YOU CAN SEE A WINDOW
WELL YOU CAN SEE THE REPORTS
THIS IS THAT THIRD EGRESS
WINDOW THAT AGAIN COULD BE
STAFF APPROVED.
A LOT OF THIS COULD BE ALL
INCLUDED IN THIS APPLICATION.
>> SO THERE'S A LOT TO GO THERE
AND THIS IS THE GARAGE
RESTORING THE SIDING, REPAIRING
THE WINDOWS AND THEN NEW DOORS
WITHIN THE EXISTING OPENINGS
BOTH THE OVERHEAD DOOR AND THEN
THE PERSON DOOR AND THEN HERE
IS THAT OVERHEAD DOOR THEN
REMOVING THE LIGHT FIXTURES IN
THE GARAGE AND ADDING A COUPLE
OF NEW ONES ALL RIGHT.
>> WE'VE HEARD ONE, TWO, NINE
AND TEN.
>> I THINK WE'VE HEARD SOME
OF THE BUILDING SIZE ALREADY.
I'LL GO THROUGH A FEW OF THEM.
>> IT IS RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN
THE HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN BUILDING'S LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE IS
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS AND
THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES OF THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER NOT
RECOMMENDED TO INTRODUCE NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE, NOT RECOMMENDED
TO REMOVE OR RADICALLY CHANGE
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES
FOR WINDOWS.
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON
REAR OR OTHER NEAR NON
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION
RECOMMENDED TO REPAIR WINDOW
FRAMES AND SASH ALSO
RECOMMENDED PROTECT AND
MAINTAIN THE WOOD WHICH
COMPRISES THE DIFFERENT PARTS
OF THE WINDOW NOT RECOMMENDED
TO INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT
IS INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY
IT'S IMPORTANT TO IDENTIFY IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER DEFINING
SPACES SO THAT CODE REQUIRED
WORK WILL NOT RESULT IN DAMAGE
OR LOSS RECOMMENDED TO COMPLY
WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY CODES
FROM DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
AND CONSTRUCT NEW FEATURES IN A
HISTORIC FEATURE IS COMPLETELY
MISSING IN THIS CASE THE PORCH
IT MAY BE A RESTORATION BASED
ON DOCUMENTARY OR PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE OR MAYBE A NEW DESIGN
THAT IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
SETTING FOR WOOD IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN IDENTIFY
AND PRESERVE WOOD FEATURES THAT
ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL CHARACTER OF A BUILDING
AND TO REPAIR THE WOOD FEATURES
NOW GETTING TO THE INTERIOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES.
YOU TALKED ABOUT WINDOWS BUT IT
IS APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN WINDOWS IN A CONDITION
AND IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
CHANGE THE NUMBER OF SIZE OR
LOCATION OF WINDOWS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO COMPLY WITH
BARRIER FREE AND SAFETY CODES
IN A MANNER THAT ENSURES THE
PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES FOR PORCHES
IS APPROPRIATE TO REPLACE USE
REPLACEMENT FEATURES THAT MATCH
THE DOCUMENTED HISTORIC DESIGN.
IF NO DOCUMENTATION EXISTS
USING A SIMPLE PLAIN DESIGN AND
PAINTING OR STANDING ALL
EXPOSED WOOD ELEMENTS, IT IS
NOT APPROPRIATE TO ENCLOSE A
PORCH IN A MANNER THAT RESULTS
IN THE LOSS OF HISTORIC
CHARACTER FOR DECKS AND PATIOS
.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO USE
RAILINGS THAT HAVE A CHAMBERED
TOP AND BOTTOM ROW AND TO USE
SIMPLE SQUARE AROUND SPINDLES
THAT ARE ATTACHED TO THE
UNDERSIDE AND TOP OF THE RAILS.
>> IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL PATIO THAT IS FLUSH
WITH GREAT USING STONE BRICK
PAVERS OR CONCRETE APPROPRIATE
TO PRESERVE AND MAINTAIN WOOD
SIDING AND TO REPAIR WOOD
SIDING.
>> IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN,
REPAIR AND MAINTAIN ORIGINAL
DOORS.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
REPLACE THE MISSING OR NOT
ORIGINAL DOOR WITH A DESIGN
THAT MATCHES THE ORIGINAL DOORS
OR WITH A COMPATIBLE NEW DESIGN
FOR FENCING AND WALLS.
IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO USE
CHAIN LINK IN THE FRONT YARD
WHERE ARE ONLY AND THAT'S IT
FOR THE GUIDELINES.
THANKS FOR BEING WITH ME.
I THINK WE'VE MADE GOOD TIME
OVERALL.
>> OK, I'LL JUST MAKE A COUPLE
MORE NOTES
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE THREE
EGRESS WINDOWS AGAIN TWO MORE
VISIBLE AND THE OTHER ALL
EGRESSED WINDOWS WILL BE
FIBERGLASS.
THE NEW LS WILL BE TIMBER.
THERE IS THAT LANDSCAPING
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO SCREEN AS
PART OF THE WORK THE PORCHES
WILL BE AN ENCLOSED ON THE
FRONT PORCH.
THERE WILL BE NEW ROUND EIGHT
INCH DIAMETER WOOD POSTS AND
THE WOOD RAILING THAT WILL BE
INSTALLED.
>> THE DESIGN SHOWN ON THE
DRAWINGS DOES LOOK TO MEET THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES ON THE REAR
PORCH SIMPLE FOUR BY FOUR INCH
SQUARE WOOD POST WILL BE USED
AND THERE'S NO RAILING SHOWN.
>> WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE
GARAGE.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT REMOVING THE
SIDING AND REPAIRING THE
REMOVING THE NON ORIGINAL
SIDING AND REPAIRING THE WOOD
SIDING BENEATH AND THAT ALSO
APPLIES TO REMOVING THE NON
ORIGINAL TRIM AND RESTORING THE
ORIGINAL TRIM WOOD TRIM
REPAIRING THE WINDOWS.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE NEW
PAVERS.
>> HOW DO YOU TALKED ABOUT
REMOVING THE CHAIN LINK FENCE
OVERALL A LOT OF THE WORK COULD
BE STAFF APPROVED.
>> IT'S ALL HERE.
THE NEW EGRESS WINDOW ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION AND THE
CONVERTED EGRESS WINDOW ON THE
EAST ELEVATION ARE AN
APPROPRIATE LOCATIONS EVEN
THOUGH EGRESS WINDOWS ON HIGHLY
VISIBLE ELEVATIONS ARE NOT
APPROPRIATE.
AVOCA HAS EXPLAINED THAT THE
CHOSEN LOCATION ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION IS THE ONLY POSSIBLE
LOCATION GIVEN THAT THIS IS A
CORNER LOT AND THE CONVERTING
THE EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOW
KEEPS THE EXISTING FENESTRATION
PATTERN AND THERE IS SOME
SCREENING STAFF BELIEVES THAT
THE REST OF THE WORK IS
APPROPRIATE AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS AND THE ANN HARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR WE'RE
MOVING THE NON ORIGINAL SIDING
ON ENCLOSING THE PORCHES AND
REMOVING THE CHAIN FENCE WILL
RESTORE IMPORTANT PARTS OF THE
HOUSES HISTORIC CHARACTER AND
HAVE A POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE
SETTING IN DISTRICT.
>> LET ME KNOW IF I MISSED
ANYTHING.
THANKS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH MARIANNA
.
NOW WE'LL HAVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> COMMISSIONER KAPLAN, THE
ONLY OTHER THING THAT I THINK
WAS DISCUSS ON SITE THAT WASN'T
THAT WAS A VERY COMPLETE REPORT
STUFF.
THE ONLY OTHER THING I REMEMBER
A CONVERSATION ABOUT WAS THE
CELLAR STAIRS AND WHAT MIGHT OR
MIGHT NOT BE USED TO COVER THEM
.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE THAT WAS
LEFT OFF THE CELLAR STAIRS ARE
GOING TO BE CONVERTED TO AN
EGRESS WINDOW.
I THINK AND IT WAS JUST UNCLEAR
IF WE WERE GOING TO TRY TO
COVER IT WITH SOMETHING.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, THE THE THE
DISCUSSION WITH THE ARCHITECT
WAS TO KEEP KEEP ALL THE LIGHT
COMING IN AND PROTECT IT FROM
WHETHER TO USE SOME SORT OF AN
ACRYLIC CLEAR ACRYLIC PANEL AND
AND I'M NOT SURE WHERE WE
RESOLVED THAT IF IT WAS GOING
AWAY AND JUST BEING LEFT OPEN
TO THE ELEMENTS OR IF IT WAS
GOING TO BE COVERED WITH
SOMETHING THAT WAS GOING TO
PROPOSE LATER.
>> YEAH, I GUESS WE'LL ASK
,
RIGHT?
YEAH.
YEAH I AGREE.
WHAT IS HAPPENING IS AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS THERE'S A
DOOR NOW THAT DOOR IS GOING TO
CONVERT IT TO AN EGRESS WINDOW.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN SO YOU'RE SAYING BUT
BUT THE ACTUAL DOOR PART THAT'S
WHAT WE DON'T KNOW RIGHT.
IS HAPPENING.
YEAH.
SO WE'LL FIND OUT BECAUSE YEAH
IT'S NOT IN THE PROPOSAL.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN I THINK THE REAL KIND
OF QUESTION HERE IS THAT EGRESS
WINDOW THAT'S ON THE NORTH
SIDE.
THAT'S RIGHT BY THE SIDEWALK
CORNER HOUSE SO OBVIOUSLY IT'S
IT'S THE LOCATION ITSELF LIKE
THEORETICALLY IT'S QUITE
VISIBLE OBVIOUSLY IT'S NOT A
HUGE SETBACK.
IT'S RIGHT AT THE CORNER.
>> SO THAT'S YOU KNOW, WORKING
AGAINST IT.
>> THERE ARE THINGS WORKING FOR
IT THOUGH STAFF MENTIONED THE
PLANTING'S OBVIOUSLY AND AND
ALSO JUST THIS PHOTO REALLY
SHOWS IT IS THAT THE THE
SIDEWALK QUITE IT LOOKS LIKE
MAYBE THREE FEET ACCORDING TO
THE SITE PLAN, THE APPLICATION
DOES HAVE THE CONTOUR LINES ON
THE SITE PLAN.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE MAYBE THREE
FEET LOWER THAN THE GRADE THAT
THE HOUSE IS BUILT ON.
SO WHILE IT IS CLOSE, IT
DOESN'T KIND OF FEEL LIKE
YOU'LL BE LIKE STARING DOWN
INTO THE WELL WHICH WOULD I
THINK MAKE IT WORSE.
SO THIS SEEMS LIKE AT LEAST
THAT FEELS BETTER AND SO THAT'S
IT FOR SITE STUFF I BELIEVE SO
LET'S GET INTO THE APPLICANT
REPORTS SO WE'VE GOT DAVID WITH
US AGAIN SEVERAL DAVIDS HERE
ACTING AND SO YES, PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD AND PLEASE LET'S HEAR
YOUR REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS AGAIN DAVID LEWIS
WITH LEWIS GREEN SCREEN
ARCHITECTS.
I AM THE ARCHITECT FOR THE JOB
FOR 40 S MAIN STREET AND OUR
MISSION FOR ONE TWO FOUR.
YEAH SO I JUST FULL TO QUICKLY
JUST ANSWER THE QUESTION THE
DECISION FOR THAT EXISTING
EXTERIOR STAIR WE ARE GOING TO
JUST LEAVE IT UNCOVERED.
WE'RE GOING TO REMOVE THE
RODDING PLYWOOD COVER ON THAT
EXISTING OPENING NOW AND JUST
LEAVE IT OPEN TO THE SKY TO
MAXIMIZE THE AMOUNT OF DAYLIGHT
THAT CAN COME INTO THE PROPOSED
BEDROOM IN THE BASEMENT GOING
BACK TO THE OVERALL PROJECT THE
IS AS YOU CAN SEE THIS YOU KNOW
THIS HOUSE IS IN ITS KIND OF AN
EYESORE RIGHT NOW, ESPECIALLY
ON THE FRONT PORCH AND YOU
KNOW, THE CURRENT OWNER IS IS A
NEW OWNER AND THIS HOUSE IS
GOING TO LOOK FANTASTIC AFTER
THIS WORK IS DONE.
IT'S REALLY CRYING OUT FOR SOME
TLC AND AS WAS DISCUSSED BEFORE
AND SOME OF THE OTHER PROJECTS
NIGHT YOU KNOW WE NEED TO ALLOW
OLDER HOUSES TO TO MAKE SOME
MINOR CHANGES IN ORDER FOR THEM
TO CONTINUE TO BE USED.
WELL AND I FEEL LIKE THE THE
ADDITION OF THIS ONE EGRESSED
WELL IN A NOT IDEAL LOCATION IS
A VERY SMALL PRICE TO PAY FOR
ALL THE OTHER IMPROVEMENTS THAT
THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS GOING TO BE
ABLE TO APPRECIATE ONCE THIS
HOUSE IS FIXED UP.
>> I THINK, YOU KNOW,
CONVERTING THIS FRONT PORCH TO
A NICE FRONT PORCH IS GOING TO
REALLY MAKE A HUGE CHANGE IN
THE GETTING RID OF THE HUMAN
CHAIN LINK FENCE AND IT'S A
REALLY NICE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
YOU ALL KNOW AND IT'S THIS YOU
KNOW, HAVING THIS HOUSE
KNAPPING ICEWIND MORE IS GOING
TO BE FANTASTIC.
>> SO THE RIGHT NOW THE
BASEMENT IS IS UNFINISHED.
>> SO THE CURRENT OWNER IS
PLANNING TO FINISH THE BASEMENT
AND THESE WINDOWS ARE REQUIRED
AND THE ONLY WAY NOT TO HAVE
ANY GLASS WINDOW ON THE NORTH
SIDE WOULD BE TO RELOCATE THE
EXISTING STAIR INSIDE THE HOUSE
WHICH WOULD BE A VERY
SIGNIFICANT AND UNNECESSARY
AMOUNT OF WORK TO THE INTERIOR.
SO HE FELT LIKE PROPOSING OR
ASKING FOR PERMISSION FOR THIS
NEWEST WINDOW ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE WAS ACTUALLY KIND
OF THE LESSER OF TWO EVILS THAT
WILL ENABLE THIS HOUSE TO
CONTINUE TO BE USED AND KEPT UP
NICELY AND AND YOU KNOW,
BROUGHT BACK TO ITS FORMER
GLORY.
I THINK THAT SUMS UP EVERYTHING
I HAD TO SAY ANYTHING ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR ME?
I HAD A QUESTION FOR YOU JUST
ABOUT IT.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT HEARING
THE STAFF REPORT JUST THE THE
STAIRS, THE EXTERIOR STAIRS
FRONT AND BACK.
IT IT APPEARS I GUESS THE WAY
THAT I WOULD READ THE
APPLICATION IS THAT YOU'RE
BASICALLY DEALING WITH THOSE BY
REPAIR YOU'LL YOU'LL REPAIR IN
PLACE WITH WITH SAME MATERIAL
AS THE FRONT LIKE IF YOU NEED
TO REPLACE A TRED OR SOMETHING
ON THE FRONT STAIR THEY'RE NOT
GETTING REBUILT BUT BUT THEY'RE
BEING THEY WOULD JUST BE LIKE
REPAIRED IN PLACE BASICALLY.
>> YEAH.
THE STAIR TO THE COURT OUT.
YES.
THE FRONT AND BACK PORCH IT
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE ANY LIKE
PROPOSED WORK IS OR ANY WORK IS
BEING PROPOSED ON THEM.
>> KRET BUT I'M GUESSING YOU
COULD JUST REPAIR THEM IF THEY
NEED TO BE REPAIRED.
>> YEAH EXACTLY.
OK, AND AND A RAILING WILL ADD
A RAILING TO SIZE OF THERE.
OK, SO THERE WILL BE A
STAIRWELL I DIDN'T SEE THAT BUT
SCHUCKERT I THINK IT'S IN THE
DRAWING ROOM.
NO IT'S NOT A DRAWING SORRY I
SHOULD HAVE DONE I'M DRAWING I
LEAVE THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT
WILL WANT US TO PUT HANDRAILS
ON THE FRONT STAIRS.
>> YEAH WE COULD TRY TO GET
THEM NOT TO MAKE US DO RAILING
I THINK WE'D BE FINE WITH A
GUARD AND A RAIL THAT MATCHES
WHAT YOU'VE PROPOSED FOR THE
FRONT PORCH AND AND OK.
BUT THAT'S I THINK ALL STAFF
APPROVAL ANYWAY RIGHT.
SO WHATEVER YOU PROPOSE YOU CAN
JUST INCLUDE IT WITH YOU KNOW
THERE'S SO MUCH OTHER STUFF IN
THIS PACKET THAT FALLS UNDER
THAT CATEGORY.
SO THAT'S JUST WOULD BE ANOTHER
THING THAT ONCE IT'S DRAWN JUST
SEND IT INTO THE CITY STACK AND
CAN YOU DESCRIBE WHAT SO YOU'RE
PROPOSING THAT THE BILKO DOOR
LIKE THE WOOD IS GOING TO BE
REMOVED AND THERE'LL BE THE
STAIR THERE SO SO YOU'VE GOT IT
BASICALLY WILL BE COMING.
YOU KNOW, JUST KIND OF LOOK
LIKE AN EGRESS WELL AT THAT
POINT BUT STAIRS SO WHAT WHAT
IS THAT?
I DIDN'T LOOK IN THERE BUT IS
IT CAN YOU DESCRIBE WHAT IS
WHAT ARE THE STAIRS MADE OF AND
WHAT WOULD WE SEE FROM THE
STAIRS RIGHT NOW OR WOULD SO
AGAIN WE'LL REPAIR ANY WOOD
THAT NEEDS TO BE REPAIRED AND
THE WALLS OF THE WELL ARE STONE
MATCHING THE STONE OF THE THE
ORIGINAL PART OF THE HOUSE
FOUNDATION.
OK, VERY GOOD.
>> DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR DAVID?
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE THAT
ARE YOU THE APPLICANT OR DO YOU
WANT YOU'RE GOOD OK THAT WAS
YOUR YOUR MOMENT TO SAY
SOMETHING BUT YOU'RE GOOD SO
NOW WE'LL MOVE TO THE THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO WE'LL OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR FOR THIS
ITEM IT'S 403 2ND STREET AND
I'M THERE'S NO ONE HERE AND I'M
GUESSING THAT NO ONE LOOKING
VERY GOOD SO THAT WILL CLOSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL
ASK IF THERE'S A COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
ON THIS ITEM.
>> I'M STILL AT.
YEAH, RIGHT.
THAT WAS A LONG ONE.
THANK HMM.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FOUR THREE
SECOND STREET, THE CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CREATE TWO
NEW EGRESS WINDOW WELLS,
CONVERT THE BASEMENT DOOR INTO
AN EGRESS WINDOW, REMOVE THE
NON ORIGINAL SIDING AND TRIM
AND REPAIR THE ORIGINAL SIDING,
ENSURE UNCLOSED THE PORCHES,
REPLACE THE GARAGE DOORS, ADD A
PAPER PATIO AND REMOVE THE
CHAIN LINK FENCE AS PROPOSED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND IT MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE WINDOWS HEALTH AND SAFETY
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING AND WOOD AS WELL AS THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> SECOND GREAT THAT WAS MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
WE'VE GOT A YOU KNOW YEAH A
LONG LIST OF ITEMS ON THIS ON
THIS APPLICATION.
>> I FEEL LIKE OBVIOUSLY MANY
OF THEM WERE STAFF APPROVAL,
YOU KNOW, SO IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT
IT YOU KNOW THERE'S NOT A LOT
TO DISCUSS PROBABLY AND I WOULD
SAY THAT IT JUST COMES DOWN TO
THE ONE THING THAT COULD NOT BE
STAFF APPROVED AND THAT IS THE
EGRESS.
>> WELL AND SO WE'VE HEARD A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT IT BUT IS
ANYONE FEELING THAT YOU KNOW
THE EGRESSED?
WELL, IT'S JUST TOO CLOSE TO
THE SIDEWALK.
IT'S NOT IN THE APPROPRIATE
LOCATION
, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY.
>> YEAH.
WE CAN SAY THEY CAN'T HAVE THE
EGRESS WELL AND THEN THEY CAN
DECIDE OK, WELL WE DON'T HAVE
THAT'S ONE BEDROOM OR WE CAN'T
DO THE YOU KNOW SO YOU KNOW,
THERE'S THERE'S OBVIOUSLY
THEY'RE THEY'RE ASKING FOR THE
EGRESS WELL FOR A REASON BUT
IT'S NOT LIKE EVERYONE JUST
GETS AN EGRESS.
WELL JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE ASKING
RIGHT.
SO YOU KNOW JUST WANT TO MAKE
THAT CLEAR.
>> BUT IN THIS INSTANCE FOR
THIS PARTICULAR HOUSE IT SOUNDS
LIKE EVERYONE NO NO ONE'S
RAISING THEIR HAND TO TALK OUT
AGAINST THE EGRESS.
>> WELL, I'VE ALREADY TALKED
ABOUT IT SO I'LL MOVE ON TO THE
NEXT WHICH WOULD JUST BE
ANYTHING ELSE.
>> IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE ABOUT
THIS SOMEONE TO MAKE A COMMENT
ON THE PROJECT?
>> WE'VE YEAH, I WOULD AGREE I
REALLY AGREE WITH THE WHAT THE
APPLICANT SAID.
THIS IS JUST REALLY GOING TO BE
A GREAT CHANGE TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OBVIOUSLY IF THIS
DOES GET APPROVED.
>> SO I WAS JUST GOING TO HAVE
ONE SCREEN ON THE EGRESS
WINDOW.
>> I AGREE.
I THINK WHAT YOU SAID EARLIER
ABOUT THE ELEVATION CHANGE
BETWEEN WHERE THE WHERE THE
HOUSE IS AND THE SIDEWALK MAKES
A DIFFERENCE AS DOES THE SHRUBS
THAT THEY'RE PROPOSING
GROUPINGS OF THREE FOOT TALL
SHRUBS SHOULD SCREEN IT
ACCURATELY.
>> SO VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ANYTHING ELSE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS?
>> VERY GOOD.
LET'S GO TO A VOTE THEN ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH WAY TO STICK IT OUT.
YEAH.
TAKE CARE.
OK WELL THAT'S WHAT YOU GET FOR
SKIPPING AUGUST OK SORRY.
>> NO IT'S OK ACTUALLY MAYBE
YOU KNOW IT'S NICE GET IT ALL
DONE IN ONE SITTING.
>> THANK YOU.
OK SO WE'VE MADE IT THROUGH THE
HEARINGS WE'RE ON TO NEW
BUSINESS AND IN FACT WE DO HAVE
SOME NEW BUSINESS TO DISCUSS
THIS EVENING AND I'LL HAND IT
OVER TO STAFF FOR THAT.
>> LET'S DISCUSS THE ANNUAL
RETREAT THAT WE PUT OFF LAST
SPRING TO THE SCHOOL BECAUSE
THERE WAS TOO MUCH SOCCER GOING
ON IN THE SHOW.
GUESS WHAT?
THERE'S SOCCER IN THE FALL TOO
.
BUT OK, LET'S BRING IT ON.
YOU OUT YOUR CALENDARS.
>> I HAVE FOLLOWED YOUR
CALENDARS THE THE ANNUAL
RETREAT IS HELD ON A SATURDAY
MORNING AND IT'S USUALLY FROM
AROUND NOON.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO DO IT THEN
BUT THAT'S JUST ONE THAT'S
ALWAYS BEEN DONE.
IF THE COMMISSION DECIDED THAT
THEY WANTED TO DO IT ON TUESDAY
EVENING AT SEVEN P.M. OR
SOMETHING WE COULD BUT USUALLY
TELL THEM ON A SATURDAY MORNING
IN A PLACE THAT'S PREFERABLY
NOT CITY HALL THOUGH ONCE IN A
WHILE IT ENDS UP HERE IF WE TRY
TO GO TO A HISTORIC BUILDING OR
A PARK OR SOMEPLACE LIKE THAT
AND I HAVE I HAVE SEVEN
POSSIBLE DATES STARTING
SEPTEMBER 27 AND GOING TO
NOVEMBER TWENTY TWO THOSE ARE
JUST THE DATES THAT SEPTEMBER
TWENTY SEVENTH IS THE FIRST.
>> YES.
AND GOING TO KNOW SO LET'S
START IN SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVEN
IF YOU KNOW YOU ARE NOT
AVAILABLE RAISE YOUR HAND.
>> I KNOW BEN AND KNOW SARAH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HOW ABOUT OCTOBER FOUR NOT
AVAILABLE OK MAYBE NO SARAH
WE'RE TALKING NINE TO NEW NOON
UNLESS YOU WANT TO START
EARLIER AND DO IT TO ELEVEN.
>> OK WE'RE AFTERNOON OR
AFTERNOON BUT THEN I'D HAVE TO
FIND A DATE.
YOU'RE COMPETING WITH FOOTBALL
TO FOOTBALL.
>> YEAH.
HUH YEAH THAT YOU SHOULD
PROBABLY DO NINE TEN AND THEN
YEAH.
>> OCTOBER FOR ANYBODY ELSE
I'VE GOT LIKE THAT UH I'M A TBD
OK ALL RIGHT UM I AM NOT
AVAILABLE OCTOBER 11 OK WHICH
MOVES US TO OCTOBER EIGHTEEN.
>> NO MARIJANA OH YEAH IT'S NOT
THE BEST DATE FOR ME BUT IT'S
NOT GOOD FOR ME EITHER.
OK FAIR WARNING THAT IF ONE
OF THE NEWBIES SAYS THEY CAN'T
MAKE IT WE'RE JUST GOING TO
CROSS THAT DATE.
>> OH BECAUSE I THINK IT WOULD
BE THE MOST HELPFUL TO
ABSOLUTELY OCTOBER 25TH
PROBABLY OK OK NOVEMBER 1ST I
CAN'T OH NO NO STEVE ANYBODY
ELSE NOT GREAT FOR ME BUT OK
YEAH
.
>> IS IT THE THE WEEKEND OR THE
TIME THAT IS GENERALLY NOT
WORKING FOR PEOPLE LIKE WHAT A
SUNDAY WOULD BE BETTER WORSE
SUNDAYS MIGHT BE BETTER I DON'T
KNOW WE GOT TWO MORE DATES.
LET'S SEE IF WE CAN CATCH
EVERYBODY ON ONE OF THOSE NEXT
ONE IS NOVEMBER 15.
OK.
>> I MEAN EITHER OK AND THEN
NOVEMBER TWENTY TWO THAT LOOKS
PRETTY GOOD ACTUALLY FOR ME.
THAT'S THE FIRST ONE THAT I HAD
A DEFINITE YES PUT IT OFF AS
LONG AS POSSIBLE.
ANYONE KNOW FOR THE TWENTY
SECOND OF NOVEMBER BOOK IT ALL
RIGHT.
>> NOVEMBER 22 YAY THERE IS AN
AWAY GAME SO THAT'S THAT WE'RE
SAFE EVEN IN TERMS OF MICHIGAN
FOOTBALL SO THANK YOU FOR NOT
GIVING YOU A DOODLE HOLD.
>> YEAH YOU DIDN'T KNOW THAT
THOSE WORKS SO WELL BUT YEAH
YEAH OK NOVEMBER TWENTY TWO
RETREAT DATE.
THANK YOU.
I WILL WORK ON GETTING SOME
SORT OF A SPEAKER MARYLYN AND I
HAVE SOME SUGGESTIONS FROM
EARLIER MEETINGS WHERE WE
DISCUSSED THIS AND ALSO ALBERT
BAGELS AND IF YOU HAVE A
LOCATION THAT YOU REALLY LOVE
FROM A PAST RETREAT LET ME KNOW
BUT PEOPLE ALWAYS JUST WELL THE
SENIOR CENTER THE SENIOR CENTER
WE A COUPLE TIMES IT'S ALWAYS
GOOD.
>> YEAH.
YEAH IT'S A LITTLE BIT COLD FOR
GALLET PARK.
YEAH.
PROBABLY CAN'T DO AN OUTDOOR
ONE.
>> YEAH THEY HAVE THAT ROOM
THAT'S MODERATELY HEATED.
>> THE BEST WAS THE THE
HIDEAWAY WHAT IS THAT CALLED
HATHAWAYS HATHAWAYS HIDEAWAY I
CAN ASK I CAN ASK THAT WAS
REALLY COOL WE CAN USE THAT.
>> WHERE ELSE CAN WE DO THAT.
IS THERE ANYTHING LIKE THAT
THAT'S LIKE I DON'T WANT BLACK
MINISTERS OR OFFICE ONE.
>> OH YEAH OH YEAH AND THE
RETREAT SPACE ON TOP OF ON YOUR
OWN IS IT KAHOOTZ OR SO.
>> YEAH ROOFTOP ANYWAY IF YOU
THINK SOMETHING LET ME KNOW.
>> YEAH OK AND TOPICS AS WELL
RIGHT YOU LIKE TO ADD NEW
TOPICS YOU GOT A LIST YOU'VE
GOT WITH ME OF TOPICS THAT WE
TALK ABOUT IN THE SPRING NEVER
CAME TO FRUITION RIGHT SO THANK
YOU.
GREAT.
I CAN'T BELIEVE WE FOUND A DATE
SERIOUSLY?
OK, LET'S MOVE ON HERE TO
MINUTES WE'VE GOT WE'VE GOT THE
JULY MINUTES YOU ALL SHOULD
HAVE GOTTEN THEM IN REVIEWED.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M NOT SURE IF IT WAS COURTNEY
MANOR OR BRITNEY ALEXANDER WHO
PROVIDED THOSE MINUTES PROBABLY
COURTNEY.
I'M GUESSING.
BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE BRITNEY IS
BACK ON THE TEAM.
SHE IS.
THAT'S EXCITING.
WELCOME BACK, BRITNEY.
WHAT'S THAT THAT SHE'S GOING TO
LOVE DOING THESE MEN?
>> OH, YES.
YES.
WELCOME BACK.
YOU'VE GOT A LOT OF MINUTES TO
PREPARE BUT WE PROBABLY VERY
PUNITIVE FOR YES.
>> WELL, THANK YOU.
>> OK, AND I SHOULD ASK ARE
THERE ANY CORRECT CONNECTIONS
TO THE JULY MINUTES THAT ANYONE
NOTICED?
OK, SEEING NONE.
>> WE WILL APPROVE THE THE
MINUTES AS PRESENTED.
GREAT.
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO I THAT'S
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS.
>> ARE THERE ANY REPORTS THIS
MONTH?
>> WE DON'T REALLY HAVE REPORTS
BECAUSE NO ONE IS ON A YOU
KNOW, OFF AND WE'LL HAVE
SOMEONE LIKE ON THE STEERING
COMMITTEE OF COBBLESTONED FARM
OR SOMETHING AND THEY'LL GIVE
US A REPORT.
>> BUT THAT'S WHY THAT'S THEIR
WE HAVEN'T HAD TO REPORT IT
ALOUD PROBABLY BE ASKED SHORTLY
TO PUT SOMEBODY ON THE OH GOOD
FARM BOARD.
>> GOOD GOOD BECAUSE KATHY
WERNER WHO LEFT WAS SHE WAS THE
OUR CONTACT YOU KNOW BEN'S DONE
IT BEFORE TOO OK REAL LITTLE
BUT NOT LONG AT ALL.
>> YOU DON'T MEET VERY OFTEN.
YEAH BUT OK I'LL LET YOU KNOW
WHEN THAT COMES UP AGAIN.
>> SURE.
AND WE'LL PROBABLY HAVE TO HAVE
AN ELECTION SOON BECAUSE KATHY
IS OUR CHAIR.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
I WAS I WAS WONDERING ABOUT
THAT SO LET'S DISCUSS THAT NOW.
>> SO WE LOST OUR VICE CHAIR.
WE LOST OUR VICE CHAIR BUT OUR
ANNUAL ELECTIONS ARE NEXT MONTH
AT THE OCTOBER MEETING.
>> IT'S PERFECT.
SO WE DO NEED A NOMINATING
COMMITTEE OF OF ONE OR TWO
PEOPLE WHO NOMINATE WHO THEY
THINK THE OFFICER SHOULD BE.
YOU CAN DO THAT AFTER TALKING
TO THE POTENTIAL OFFICERS YOU
CAN DO THAT WITHOUT TELLING
THEM AND JUST NEED SOMEBODY TO
MAKE SOME NOMINATIONS
.
RIGHT.
AND WE NEED SOMEONE TO MAYBE
STEP UP AND SAY THAT THEY WANT
TO BE YEAH.
AT THAT POINT I FEEL WE CAN DO
THAT NEXT MONTH.
>> WE NEED TO DO THAT NEXT
MONTH.
YEAH BUT BUT WE CAN WAIT UNTIL
THE MEETING NEXT MONTH TO JUST
HAVE A QUICK DISCUSSION
OF YEAH.
>> SO IF ANYONE WANTS TO BE
WELL ANY ANY OF THE THREE ROLES
THERE'S THE CHAIR, THE VICE
CHAIR AND THE SECRETARY.
LET'S ASK RIGHT NOW MR. CHAIR,
ARE YOU MR. YES.
>> ARE YOU ARE YOU INTERESTED
IN REMAINING AS THE CHAIR
AGAIN?
>> YES.
ALL RIGHT.
DAVE IS INTERESTED IN TERMS MR.
CALDERON, ARE YOU INTERESTED IN
REMAINING AS THE SECRETARY OR
THE VICE CHAIR OUT OF THE
SECRETARY?
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'RE LOOKING FOR THE MIDDLE
MAN, RIGHT?
SO VICE AND THE BIGGEST ROLE
THAT THE VICE CHAIR DOES IS
WHEN THE CHAIR IS GONE, THE
VICE CHAIR IS THE ONE THAT IS
RUNNING THE MEETING.
SO FAIR WARNING THERE.
>> WHO WOULD LIKE TO VOLUNTEER
TO BE THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE
?
SORRY IT'S IN OUR BYLAWS TO DO
THAT.
>> THANK YOU, JOE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE ALL I THINK
THAT'S VERY APPROPRIATE ALSO.
OK, SO GOOD.
ANY OTHER REPORTS WE SORT
OF DID CONCERNS AND REPORTS
TOGETHER.
IT'S I DON'T KNOW WHY THOSE ARE
SEPARATE BUT I'M NOT IN CHARGE.
>> OK, ASSIGNMENTS THAT'S THE
NEXT STEP HERE.
>> SO WE'VE GOT A REVIEW
COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENT WE'RE
SHIFTING FROM THE 5:00 P.M.
TIME SLOT TO THE NOON SLOT WE
REVIEW RIGHT.
>> SO IN THE SUMMERTIME WE
REVIEW AT FIVE O'CLOCK BECAUSE
THAT'S JUST EASIER FOR MOST
PEOPLE BUT THEN IT'S DARK AT
FIVE O'CLOCK IN THE WINTER SO
WE CAN'T DO THAT ALL YEAR.
>> SO SHIFT TO NOON WHICH IS
THE OTHER MAYBE EASIER TIME
SLOT FOR PEOPLE TO TO DO.
>> AND SO ANYWAY MONDAY
OCTOBER 6TH IS ANYONE
INTERESTED.
OH GREAT RIGHT I'VE DONE IT.
I THINK IT WAS STEVE.
OK, GREAT THANK YOU STEVE AND
SARAH.
>> WONDERFUL.
OK AND I DON'T CARE WHERE MORE
VISITOR REPORTS FROM STAFF ANY
REPORTS OF NEW REPORTS FROM
STAFF.
>> OK, YEAH NO THANKS.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
AND NOW THE CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS THAT
ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO HEAR?
>> I WILL BE ABSENT NEXT MONTH.
I WANT TO.
OK, OK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH TO THREE FOUR
AND THEN MAYBE JAN OK VERY GOOD
.
OK WE HAD SEVERAL
COMMUNICATIONS THIS MONTH BUT
THEY WERE ALL RELEVANT TO ONE
OF THE HEARINGS.
ARE THERE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
THAT ARE GENERAL.
>> NO NO THOSE ONLY THOSE.
>> OK VERY GOOD.
SO THEN I WILL NOW ADJOURN THIS
NUMBER ELEVEN TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE HGC MEETINGS AT TEN FOUR
PM THANK YOU ALL TEN FOR